Customer Centricity
Creating value for our customers
Customer Focus is one of the five core
values of the Bank. Our customer base
consists of individuals, corporates,
MSMEs, farmers and Government
entities amongst others and our focus is
to provide them with a seamless banking
experience. We undertake multiple
initiatives geared towards serving the
diverse needs of the customers and our
efforts are reflected in the strength of
our brand value and recall.
Service Quality
Initiatives and
Grievance Redressal
Driven by the core value of Customer
Focus, the Bank has always
endeavoured to improve customer
experience and has adopted a
holistic approach for the same
across multiple channels ranging
from BranchBanking, PhoneBanking,
NetBanking, MobilBanking, EVA
chatbot and the Bank's social care
handles. The Bank has also improvised
on the relationship-based banking
programmes. In addition to the
branch-based relationship managers,
it also has a Virtual Relationship
Manager (VRM) programme to
cater to various financial needs in a
personalized manner. The Bank has
adopted a three-step strategy with
regards to Customer Service- Define,
Measure, and Improve. It invites and
reviews performance on customer
service as well as grievance redressal
at different levels which are Branch
Level Customer Service Committees
(BLCSCs), Standing Committee
on Customer Service (SCCS) and
Customer Service Committee of the
Board (CSCB). We have put robust
processes in place to regularly monitor
and measure quality of service levels
not only at various touch points but
also at a product and process level by
Quality Initiatives Group.
As part of its continuous efforts to
enhance quality of service, the Service
Quality team carries out regular
reviews across various products/
processes/channels. The effectiveness
of the quality of service provided
is also reviewed at different levels,
including the Customer Service
Committee of the Board.
One of the basic building blocks of
providing acceptable level of customer
service is to have an effective internal
Grievance Redressal mechanism /
framework. In this regard, we have
outlined a framework for redressal of
customer grievances and documented
it in the form of a Grievance Redressal
Policy - duly approved by its Board.
It has also made this policy available
in public domain (on the website
as well as in the branches). The
Bank has also formulated a Board
approved Protection Policy, which
limits the liability of customers in case
of unauthorized electronic banking
transactions.
Thanks to these initiatives, the Bank's
customer complaints for FY22
decreased by 21% from 4,67,453* to
3,68,291.
*Restated complaints number based on re classification of queries into complaints from 3,25,786.
74