Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Provident fund
The guidance note on AS-15, Employee Benefits, states that employer established provident funds, where interest is guaranteed
are to be considered as defined benefit plans and the liability has to be valued. The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) has issued
a guidance note on valuation of interest rate guarantees on exempt provident funds. The actuary has accordingly valued the
same and the Bank held a provision of Nil as at March 31, 2022 (previous year: Nil), towards the present value of the guaranteed
interest benefit obligation. The actuary has followed the deterministic approach as prescribed by the guidance note.
Assumptions
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Discount rate (GOI security yield)
6.80% per annum
6.50% per annum
Expected guaranteed interest rate
8.10% per annum
8.50% per annum
The Bank does not have any unfunded defined benefit plan. The Bank contributed ₹ 420.98 crore (previous year: ₹ 370.13
crore) to the provident fund, ₹ 5.72 crore (previous year: ₹ 4.63 crore) to the National Pension Scheme (for employees who
opted) and ₹ 76.37 crore (previous year: ₹ 75.64 crore) to the superannuation plan.
The Code on Social Security 2020 ('the Code') relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment,
has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, the
Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date from
which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued. The
Bank will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in which, the
Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
25. Disclosures on remuneration
Qualitative Disclosures
A. Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration
Name and composition
The Board of Directors of the Bank has constituted the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (hereinafter, the 'NRC')
for overseeing and governing the compensation policies of the Bank. The NRC is comprised of five non-executive directors
as of March 31, 2022. Further, four members of the NRC are also members of the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee
(hereinafter, the 'RPMC') of the Board.
As of March 31, 2022, the NRC is comprised of Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Sandeep Parekh,
Mr. M.D. Ranganath and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty. Further, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sandeep Parekh
and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty are also the members of the RPMC. Mr. Sanjiv Sachar is the chairperson of the NRC.
Mandate of the NRC
The primary mandate of the NRC is to oversee and review the implementation of compensation policies of the Bank.
The NRC periodically reviews the overall Remuneration Policy of the Bank with a view to attract, retain and motivate
employees. In this capacity it is required to review and approve the design of the total compensation framework, including
compensation strategy programs and plans, on behalf of the Board of Directors. The compensation structure and pay
revision for the Group Heads, Material Risk Takers, Senior Management, Risk and Control Staff, Key Management
Personnel and Whole Time Directors (who are also Material Risk Takers) of the Bank is approved by the NRC and
subsequently approved by the Board of Directors. The compensation of the Whole Time Directors requires the additional
approval of the Reserve Bank of India. The NRC co-ordinates with the RPMC to ensure that compensation is aligned
with prudent risk taking. Further the NRC also reviews the appointments of individuals at the levels of Group Heads, Key
Management Personnel, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors of the Bank.
272