Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
preventive actions. Periodic reports are submitted to the Board
and senior management committees.
Compliance Risk
Compliance Risk is defined as the risk of impairment of your
Bank's integrity, leading to damage to its reputation, legal or
regulatory sanctions, or financial loss, as a result of a failure (or
perceived failure) to comply with applicable laws, regulations
and standards. Your Bank has a Compliance Policy to ensure
the highest standards of compliance. A dedicated team of
subject matter experts in the Compliance Department works
with business, support and operations teams to ensure active
Compliance Risk management and monitoring. The team also
provides advisory services on regulatory matters. The focus is on
identifying and reducing risk by rigorously testing products and
also putting in place robust internal policies. Products that adhere
to regulatory norms are tested after rollout and shortcomings,
if any, are fully addressed till the product stabilises on its own.
Internal policies are reviewed and updated periodically as per
agreed frequency or based on market actions or regulatory
guidelines/actions. The compliance team also seeks regular
feedback on regulatory compliance from product, business and
operation teams through self-certifications and monitoring.
ICAAP
Your Bank has a structured management framework in the
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) to
identify, assess and manage all risks that may have a material
adverse impact on its business/financial position/capital
adequacy. The ICAAP framework is guided by the Board
approved ICAAP Policy.
Stress Testing Framework
Your Bank has implemented a Board approved Stress Testing
Policy and Framework which forms an integral part of the Bank's
ICAAP. Stress testing involves the use of various techniques to
assess your Bank's potential vulnerability to extreme but plausible
stressed business conditions. The changes in the levels of Pillar
I risks and select Pillar II risks, along with the changes in the
on and off Balance Sheet positions of your Bank are assessed
under assumed 'stress' scenarios and sensitivity factors. The
suite of stress scenarios include topical themes as well as
prevailing geopolitical / macroeconomic / sectoral and other
trends. The stress testing outcome may be analysed through
capital impact and/or identification of vulnerable borrowers
depending on the scenario.
Group Risk
Your Bank has two subsidiaries, HDB Financial Services Limited
and HDFC Securities Limited. The Board of each subsidiary is
responsible for managing their respective material risks (Credit
Risk, Concentration Risk, Market Risk, Operational Risk,
Liquidity Risk, Interest Rate Risk on Banking Book, Technology
Risk, Reputation Risk, Compliance Risk, Business Risk and
others). The Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC) was
instituted in your Bank under the ICAAP framework to establish a
formal and dedicated structure to periodically assess the nature/
quantum of material risks of the subsidiaries and adequacy of
its risk management processes. Stress testing for the group
as a whole is carried out by integrating the stress tests of
the subsidiaries. Similarly, capital adequacy projections are
formulated for the group after incorporating the business/capital
plans of the subsidiaries.
Business Continuity Planning (BCP)
Your Bank has an ISO22301:2019 certified Business Continuity
Program in place to minimise service disruptions and potential
impact on its employees, customers and business during any
unforeseen adverse events or circumstances. This program
is designed in accordance with the guidelines issued by
regulatory bodies and is subject to regular internal, external and
regulatory reviews. The central Business Continuity Office works
towards strengthening the bank's continuity preparedness.
The implementation is overseen by the Business Continuity
Steering Committee which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer.
The Business Continuity Procedure has well defined roles and
responsibilities for Crisis Management, Business Recovery,
Emergency Response and IT Disaster Recovery Teams. Please
refer to page no. 52 for more details.
Some of the key aspects of thisprogram include thefollowing:
· Presence of a Steering Committee for centralised monitoring
of your Bank's Business Continuity program implementation
· Presence of Crisis Management teams for effective
management of recovery operations during disruptive events
· Presence of a dedicated DR site for recovery of critical core
and customer facing applications
· Decentralised recovery plans at functional and regional
levels for structured and speedy recovery of operations
· Periodic drills are exercises for testing the effectiveness of
these recovery plans.
These robust practices have enabled your bank to continue
delivering banking services seamlessly to customers throughout
the COVID-19 pandemic phases coupled with other major
disruptive events. Your Bank has successfully emerged from
all these difficult situations with a hybrid approach comprising
of well-adopted continuity and recovery strategies like remote
working (work from home), split operations, work transfer and/
or staff transfer to available sites, in accordance with prevailing
protocols and norms.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
149