Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
lakh customers in all ELGS schemes. This swift support enabled
existing customers to meet their operational liabilities and helped
in the smooth functioning of their businesses.
The silver lining has been that the pace of digitalisation among
MSMEs has gained further momentum. This will not only help
the pace of disbursement but also increase transparency in the
sector. The process started with the Government's digitalisation
push and the adoption of GST, which resulted in easy availability
of data for banks regarding cash flows of these companies. It
has been further expanded to enable customers to apply online
by submitting requisite documents online and post sanction
disbursement execution in digital way.
The SME portal continues to offer ad hoc approvals, pre-
approved TODs on an STP basis to existing customers. They
can request top-up of loans and submit the required documents
online. The SME portal also helps customers access your
Bank's services related to sanctioned credit facilities 24/7
from anywhere.
On the trade side, your Bank's focus has been on customer
engagement for increasing the penetration of Trade on Net
applications. This is a complete enterprise trade solution for
customers engaged in domestic as well as foreign trade, enabling
them to initiate online requests and track them seamlessly,
resulting in reduced time and costs.
Taking Banking to the Unbanked
Your Bank is fully committed to taking banking to the remotest
parts of the country through a combination of an extensive
physical network and a robust digital suite of products and
services. Today, about half of your Bank's outlets are located
in rural and semi-urban areas. Your Bank also offers last mile
access through mobile applications such as BHIM, UPI, USSD,
Scan and Pay, and RuPay enabled Micro-ATMs.
To bring more under-banked sections of the population into
formal financial channels, your Bank has opened over 26.02 lakh
accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY)
and enrolled 38.58 lakh customers in social security schemes
since inception. We now rank among the leading private sector
banks in this regard. In the year under review, loans to the tune
of ₹ 7,028 crore to 12.76 lakh beneficiaries were extended under
the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) and nearly ₹ 216
crore to 1,014 beneficiaries under the 'Stand up India' scheme
to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and women borrowers.
Your Bank also has actively supported PM Street Vendor's
AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PMSVANIDHI) a special scheme under micro-
credit facility for street vendors with a collateral free affordable
term loan of ₹ 10,000 for 1 year. Your Bank has disbursed
₹ 10,000 each to 16,286 street vendors to support them during
the pandemic and has also educated the street vendors in using
the digital mode for making financial transactions.
Sustainable Livelihood initiative
This is primarily a social initiative with elements of business. It
entails skill training, livelihood financing, and creating market
linkages. (Please refer to page no. 95 for details)
E) Environmental Sustainability
Sustainability is one of the core values of the Bank. Please refer
to page no. 56 where it is covered in detail.
F) Business Enablers
1) People Transformation
People is one of the core values of the Bank. For details please
refer to page no. 80.
2) Information Technology
Summary
The Bank has accelerated the Technology and Digital
Transformation with a continued focus on creating a seamless
digital experience for customers. RBI, through its order dated
December 2, 2020, advised your Bank to immediately (i) stop
sourcing of new credit card customers and (ii) stop all launches
of digital business generating activities planned under program
Digital 2.0. RBI lifted the restrictions on new credit card
acquisitions in August 2021 followed by the removal of the
embargo on the Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. The Bank
is fully geared to launch the next wave of strategic technology
& digital programs which will pave the way for new customer
journeys and best-in-class products and services through
innovation and transformation.
Your Bank has taken significant strides to ensure further
fortification of its IT infrastructure and architecture as a robust,
scalable and secure ecosystem. Strategic technology initiatives
such as hybrid cloud approach, DR Resiliency, capacity
enhancements, data centre migration to state-of-the-art facilities,
comprehensive obsolescence management and monitoring,
next-gen security operations centre and more are pivotal to the
Bank to move from strength to strength and usher in the next
age of digital banking.
(A) Technology Absorption
The Bank is accelerating the technology and digital transformation
agenda. It continues to stay invested in creating a seamless
digital and customer experience across digital touchpoints. Your
Bank's focused factory approach is enabling the building of its
own capabilities to co-create Tech IP. Additionally, the imbibing of
agile and DevSecOps principles and practices and cloudification
of the Bank's tech stack are pivotal enablers in the next leg of its
technology and digital transformation journey.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 143