Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
task force that produced the National Infrastructure Pipeline
(NIP). He has also served as Secretary to the Union Government
for Disinvestment (Department of Investment and Public Asset
Management) wherein he was responsible for both policy as well
as execution of the process of disinvestment of Government of
India's stake in state owned enterprises.
During the period 2002-07, Mr. Chakraborty served as Director
and subsequently as Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance
(Department of Expenditure). During this period, he appraised
projects in the Infrastructure sector as well as looked after
subsidies of Government of India. He had also updated and
modernized the Government's Financial & Procurement rules.
Mr. Chakraborty has also discharged varied roles in the Gujarat
State Government including heading the Finance Department
as its Secretary. He had been responsible for piloting the private
sector investment legislation in the State. In the State Govt.,
he has worked on the ground in both public governance and
development areas.
Mr. Chakraborty has also served on the Board of World Bank as
alternate Governor as well as on the Central Board of Directors of
the Reserve Bank of India. He was also the Chairman of National
Infrastructure Investment Fund (NIIF) as also on the Board of
many listed companies. Mr. Chakraborty was the CEO/MD
of the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited group of
companies as well as Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals
Limited. Mr. Chakraborty had published articles in reputed
journals in the areas of public finance, risk sharing in Infrastructure
projects and gas infrastructure. Mr. Chakraborty graduated as
a Bachelor in Engineering (Electronics & Communication) from
NIT Kurukshetra. He holds a Diploma in Business Finance (ICFAI,
Hyderabad) and a Master's degree in Business Administration
from the University of Hull, UK.
Mr. Chakraborty is an Independent Director in BAE Systems
India (Services) Private Limited and Association of City Gas
Distribution Entities.
Mr. Chakraborty does not hold any shares in the Bank as on
March 31, 2022.
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (DIN: 08614396)
[Managing Director & CEO]
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, aged fifty-seven (57) years, has an
overall experience of thirty (30) years. He has completed his
graduation in Science with specialization in Physics, is a
Chartered Accountant by profession and holds a Master's
degree in Economics of Money, Banking & Finance from the
University of Sheffield, United Kingdom.
Mr. Jagdishan joined the Bank in the year 1996 as a Manager
in the Finance function. He became Business Head - Finance
in 1999 and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in the year
2008. He played a critical role in supporting the growth trajectory
of the Bank, and led the finance function with a pivotal role in
aligning the organization in achieving the strategic objectives
over the years.
Prior to his appointment as Managing Director & Chief Executive
Officer of the Bank, he was the Group Head of the Bank in
addition to overseeing the functions of Finance, Human
Resources, Legal & Secretarial, Administration, Infrastructure,
Corporate Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility.
Mr. Jagdishan is not a director in any other company.
Mr. Jagdishan along with his relatives, holds 16,79,943 equity
shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha (DIN: 02490648)
[Executive Director]
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, aged fifty-seven (57) years, holds a
Bachelor of Commerce degree from University of Mumbai and
is a career banker with over thirty five (35) years of experience.
He has been associated with the Bank since 1995. In his current
position as Executive Director, he is responsible for Wholesale
Banking covering areas of Corporate Banking, PSUs, Capital &
Commodities Markets, Financial Institutions, Custody, Mutual
Funds, Global Capability Centre & Financial Sponsors coverage,
and Banks coverage.
As Executive Director, in his earlier position, he was responsible
for Corporate Banking, Emerging Corporate Group, Business
Banking, Healthcare Finance, Agri Lending, Tractor Financing,
Commercial Vehicle Finance, Commercial Equipment Finance,
Infrastructure Finance, Department for Special operations and
inclusive banking initiatives group.
In his previous position as Group Head - Credit & Market Risk,
he was responsible for the Risk Management activities in the
Bank viz., Credit Risk, Market Risk, Debt Management, Risk
Intelligence and Control functions.
Prior to joining the Bank, he worked in SBI Commercial and
International Bank in various areas including Trade Finance and
Corporate Banking.
He has represented HDFC Bank as a member of the working
group on banking related committees.
Mr. Bharucha is not a director in any other company.
Mr. Bharucha, along with his relatives, holds 26,02,695 equity
shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
Mr. Malay Patel (DIN: 06876386)
[Independent Director]
Mr. Malay Patel, aged forty-five (45) years, is a Major in
Engineering (Mechanical) from Rutgers University, Livingston,
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 367