Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
The framework developed by the Bank in order to arrive at the quantum of bonus pool is based on the performance
of the Bank and profitability. The annual variable pay is distributed based on business unit and individual performance
and job band and role of the individual for non-business functions. The business unit performance is based on
factors such as growth in revenue, growth in profit, cost to income ratio and achievement vis-à-vis plans and key
objectives. Bonus pay out for an individual employee in a particular grade is linked to the performance rating of the
employee and subject to meeting the Bank's standards of ethical conduct.
The Bank has devised appropriate Malus and Clawback clauses as a risk mitigant for Whole Time Directors,
Material Risk Takers, Senior Management (i.e. Employees in the job Bands of Executive Vice President and above).
Under the Malus clause the incumbent could forego the vesting of the deferred variable pay in full or in part. Under
the Clawback clause the incumbent is obligated to return all the tranches of variable pay payout pertaining to
the reference performance year. The deferred variable pay is paid out post review and approval by the NRC and
the Board.
D. Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance during a performance measurement
period with levels of remuneration
The Bank has a robust performance management system for evaluating the performance of its Whole Time Directors.
The performance appraisal system is based on a Balanced Scorecard Framework and considers qualitative as well as
quantitative factors of performance which includes the following parameters:
1.
Business Performance - This includes business growth, profitability, asset quality and shareholder value
2.
Stakeholder Relationship - This includes net promoter score and corporate social responsibility
3.
Audit and Compliance - This includes internal audit reports and compliance with the regulations and
inspection reports
4.
Digital Transformation - This includes performance on initiatives required to run the bank and grow the bank
5.
Organizational Excellence - This includes succession planning and employee engagement
While the above parameters form the core evaluation parameters for the Bank and the remuneration of its Whole Time
Directors, each of the business units are measured on the following from a remuneration standpoint:
a)
Increase in plan over the previous year;
b)
Actual growth in revenue over previous year;
c)
Growth in net revenue (%);
d)
Achievement of net revenue against plan (%);
e)
Actual profit before tax;
f)
Growth in profit before tax compared to the previous year;
g)
Improvement in cost to income over the previous year; and
h)
Achievement of key strategic objectives.
The process by which levels of remuneration in the Bank are aligned to the performance of the Bank, business unit and
individual employees is articulated below:
Fixed Pay
The Bank reviews the fixed pay portion of the compensation structure basis merit-based increments and market
corrections. These are based on a combination of performance rating, job band and the functional category of the
individual employee. For a given job band, the merit increment is directly related to the performance rating. The Bank
strives to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of fixed pay over time. All other
things remaining equal, the correction percentage is directly related to the performance rating of the individual.
Variable Pay
Basis the performance of the business unit, individual performance and role, the Bank has formulated the following
variable pay plans:
· Variable Pay Plans:
For Employees in Job Bands of Vice President and above (includes employees in Senior Management,
Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors) the variable Pay intends to reward short term as well as long term
sustained performance of the bank and shareholder value creation.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 279