Directors' Report
set out in Annexure 2 of this report in the format prescribed
in the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
Rules, 2014. This Policy is available on the Bank's website at
https://v1.hdfcbank.com/csr/index.aspx.
Related Party Transactions
Particulars of contracts or arrangements with related parties
referred to in Section 188 (1), as prescribed in Form AOC-2 under
Rule 8 (2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is enclosed
as Annexure 3.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
Pursuant to Section 186 (11) of the Companies Act, 2013, the
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, except
sub-section (1), do not apply to a loan made, guarantee given
or security provided or any investment made by a banking
company in the ordinary course of business. The particulars of
investments made by the Bank are disclosed in note number 10
of Schedule 18 of the Financial Statements as per the applicable
provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Financial Statements of Subsidiaries and
Associates
In terms of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and read
with Rule 8 (1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 the
performance and financial position of the Bank's subsidiaries
and associates are enclosed as Annexure 4 to this report.
There were no entities which became or ceased to be the Bank's
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures during the year.
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The Bank encourages an open and transparent system of
working and dealing amongst its stakeholders. While the Bank's
"Code of Conduct & Ethics Policy" directs employees to uphold
Bank values and conduct business worldwide with integrity and
highest ethical standards, the Bank has also adopted a "Whistle
Blower Policy" to encourage and empower the Employees/
Stakeholders to make or report any Protected Disclosures under
the Policy, without any fear of reprisal, retaliation, discrimination
or harassment of any kind.
This Policy has also been put in place to provide a mechanism
through which adequate safeguards can be provided against
victimization of employees who avail of this mechanism. The
policy would cover and will be applicable to the Protected
Disclosures related to violation/ suspected violation of the Code
of Conduct including (a) breach of applicable law; (b) fraud or
corruption; (c) leakage/suspected leakage of unpublished price
sensitive information which are in violation to SEBI (Prohibition
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and related internal policy
of the Bank, i.e. Share Dealing Code of the Bank, (d) wilful data
breach and/ or unauthorized disclosure of Bank's proprietary
data including customer data.
All Protected Disclosures made under the policy shall be
made to the Whistle Blower Committee through the following
modes; (a) By letter in a closed / sealed envelope addressed
to Whistle Blower committee, (b) by submission of the same
on the information portal of the Bank, (c) by way of an email
addressed to whistleblower@hdfcbank.com. In exceptional
circumstances, the Whistle Blower may make such Protected
Disclosures directly to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee
of the Bank.
All Protected Disclosures received under this Policy would be
examined by the Whistle Blower Committee and further assign the
investigation to an appropriate Investigation Officer(s) depending
on the nature of the subject matter of the Protected Disclosure.
The Investigation Authority shall place the investigation report in
respect of any Protected Disclosure before the Whistle Blower
Committee together with any other supporting documents
which may be required by the Whistle Blower Committee and
shall discuss the findings of the investigation with the Whistle
Blower Committee. After review of the investigation report
and the requisite supporting documents, the Whistle Blower
Committee shall take the necessary actions in relation to the
Protected Disclosure.
Details of Whistle blower complaints received and subsequent
action taken and the functioning of the Whistle Blower
mechanism are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee
of the Board. During the financial year 2021-22, a total of 147
such complaints were received and taken up for investigation
which has resulted in certain staff actions in 47 cases post
investigation. The broad categories of whistle blower complaints
were in the areas of improper business practices, behavioural
related issues and corruption.
The Policy is available on the website of the Bank at the link-
https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/codes-and-policies
Securities Class Action Suit
On September 3, 2020, a securities class action lawsuit was filed
against the Bank and certain of its current and former officers in
the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New
York. The complaint was amended on February 8, 2021. The
amended complaint alleges that the Bank, its former Managing
Director, Mr. Aditya Puri, and the present Managing Director
& CEO, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan made materially false and
misleading statements regarding certain aspects of the Bank's
business and compliance policies, which resulted in the Bank's
American Depository Share price declining on July 13, 2020
154