Directors' Report
adopter of digital technology through the Corporate Net Banking
Platform, ENet. It has now launched an upgraded Corporate
Internet Banking Platform CBX which offers a better UI/UX and
richer dashboard. New customers will be onboarded on this and
existing customers will be migrated to this platform.
The bank has introduced a unique Supply Chain digital platform
that allows its corporate clients and their supply chain network
consisting of dealers, vendors, and corporate customers to
connect seamlessly with the bank's system. The platform is
designed to provide a convenient, easy to use and efficient
interface across all supply chain products for all members of
the supply chain thus enhancing customer experience.
Your Bank offers the entire gamut of financial services, such as
payments, collection, tax solutions, Government business, trade
finance services, cash management solutions and corporate
cards through its flagship platform, besides seamlessly
connecting its customers through API, S2S (Server to Server)
and Host-to-Host services.
Treasury
The Treasury is the custodian of your Bank's cash/liquid assets
and handles its investments in securities, foreign exchange
and cash instruments. It manages the liquidity and interest rate
risks on the balance sheet and is also responsible for meeting
reserve requirements. The vertical also helps manage the
treasury needs of customers and earns a fee income generated
from transactions customers undertake with your Bank while
managing their foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Revenue accrues from spreads on customer transactions based
on trade and remittance flows and demonstrated hedging needs.
Your Bank recorded revenue of ₹ 3,907.9 crore from foreign
exchange and derivative transactions in the year under review.
While plain vanilla forex products were in demand across all
customer segments, demand for derivatives products increased
with the RBI liberalizing regulations and allowing Indian banks to
participate in Non-Deliverable Offshore markets.
As part of its prudent risk management, your Bank enters into
foreign exchange and derivatives deals with counterparties after
it has set up appropriate credit limits based on its evaluation of
the ability of the counterparty to meet its obligations. Where
your Bank enters into foreign currency derivatives contracts
not involving the Indian Rupee with its customers, it typically
lays them off in the inter-bank market on a matched basis. For
such foreign currency derivatives, your Bank primarily carries
the counterparty credit risk (where the customer has crystallised
payables or mark-to-market losses) and may carry only residual
market risk, if any. Your Bank also deals in derivatives on its own
account, including for the purpose of its own Balance Sheet
risk management.
Your Bank maintains a portfolio of Government Securities in
line with the regulatory norms governing the Statutory Liquidity
Ratio (SLR). A significant portion of these SLR securities are in
'Held-to- Maturity' (HTM) category, while some are 'Available for
Sale' (AFS). Your Bank is also a primary dealer for Government
Securities. As a part of this business, your Bank holds fixed
income securities as 'Held for Trading' (HFT).
In the year under review, your Bank continued to be a significant
participant in the domestic exchange and interest rate markets. It
also capitalised on falling bond yields to book profits and is now
looking at tapping opportunities arising out of the liberalisation
in the foreign exchange and interest rate markets.
B) International Business
During the year, your Bank stayed on course to cater to NRI
clients and deepen its product and service proposition. Your
Bank has global footprints by way of representative offices and
branches in countries like Bahrain, Hong Kong, the UAE and
Kenya. It also has a presence in International Financial Service
Centre (IFSC) at GIFT City in Gandhinagar, Gujarat.
The Bank's product strategy in International Markets is customer
centric and it has products to cater to client needs across asset
classes. Your Bank now has plans to extend the product offering
from GIFT City Branch under Liberalized Remittance Scheme to
Resident and Non Resident clients.
As on March 31, 2022, the Balance Sheet size of International
Business was US$ 7.66 billion. Advances constituted 3.12% of
the Bank's gross advances. The Total Income contributed by
Overseas Branches constituted 0.55% of Bank's Total Income
for the year.
}
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
US $ 7.6 + billion
Balance Sheet
C) Partnering with the Government
Government and Institutions Business
The past year has been momentous for the Government and
Institutions Business vertical in your Bank. Some key Highlights
for your Bank include:
1. Declared the single largest collector of direct taxes by the
Controller General of Accounts, Government of India in
FY 2020-21
2.
Received mandates and began collecting customs duty
3.
Received mandates from the Railways Board for e-freight
collections, and pension business
140