Message from the MD & CEO
Reimagining the future with
technology and a service first culture
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer,
HDFC Bank Limited
Dear Stakeholders,
Let me start by wishing all of you a happy and healthy future.
The pandemic has clearly reinforced the message that
Health is Wealth.
If FY21 saw the darkest period of the pandemic, then
the last financial year was the year of hope. Though the
pandemic did not disappear, the nationwide roll out of the
vaccine programme meant that lives were more secure, and
coupled with precautions, people could get back to some
degree of normalcy.
With the period of uncertainty mostly behind us, I believe
a more positive macroeconomic outlook dominates the
executive agenda, across industries. While there are
headwinds in the form of rising inflation and the Ukraine
crisis, among several others, India is expected to grow 7.3%
and is likely to be the fastest-growing major economy in the
world in FY23 with the strength to absorb external shocks.
Our Performance
Our Balance Sheet has been resilient during the pandemic
and has grown further. Our asset quality continues to remain
healthy and amongst the best in the industry. Our Balance
Sheet increased by 18.4% to ₹20,68,535 Cr and Net Profit
increased by 18.8% to ₹36,961.3 Cr. GNPA decreased
to 1.17% from 1.32%. ROA (average) was at a healthy
2.03% and ROE at a healthy 16.9%. Our commitment to
shareholders remained high with a proposed dividend pay-
out of ₹15.50 (Fifteen Rupees Fifty Paise only) per equity
share of ₹1 (Rupee 1 only), which translates to a dividend
pay-out ratio of 23.28% for the financial year ended
March 31, 2022.
I would like to say a heartfelt 'Thank You' to all my
colleagues for this performance. Each one of the one lakh
forty-one thousand plus members of the HDFC Bank family
gave their best in truly challenging times, so we could serve
you as we have for decades. Words cannot adequately
convey my gratitude to them.
In my letter to you all last year, I had highlighted my key
focus areas. Improving technology resilience, a clear focus
on three Cs - Culture, Conscience and Customer and
building for the future.
Let me now focus on these.
Technology Resilience
Last year I had said that technology continues to remain
both a strength as well as an area of improvement. Strength,
as without this, we could not have grown to be a bank of this
scale and increased our market share consistently. However,
our customers faced some technology-related issues in
accessing the Bank's products and services during the
previous year, which had led to some regulatory action,
last fiscal.
10