Report on Corporate Governance
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
The Bank has complied with all the applicable mandatory
requirements of the Code of Corporate Governance as
prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations
Reg.
No.
Particulars
Status of
compliance
17
Requirements pertaining to the Board of Directors
Compliant
17A
Maximum number of Directorships
Compliant
18
Requirements pertaining to the Audit Committee
Compliant
19
Requirements pertaining to Nomination and
Remuneration Committee
Compliant
20
Requirements pertaining to Stakeholders
Relationship Committee
Compliant
21
Requirements pertaining to Risk Management
Committee
Compliant
22
Requirements pertaining to Vigil Mechanism
Compliant
23
Requirements pertaining to Related Party
Transactions
Compliant
24
Corporate governance requirements with respect
to subsidiary of listed entity
Compliant
24A
Requirements pertaining to Secretarial Audit and
Secretarial Compliance Report
Compliant
25
Obligations with respect to independent Directors
Compliant
26
Obligations with respect to employees including
senior management, key managerial persons,
directors and promoters
Compliant
27
Other corporate governance requirements
Compliant
46
Requirements pertaining to the dissemination of
certain information under a separate section on
the website
Compliant
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
The Bank has put in place a mechanism for performance
evaluation of the Directors. The details of the same have been
included in the Directors' Report.
COMPLIANCE WITH NON-MANDATORY
REQUIREMENTS
a) Board of Directors
The Bank maintains the expenses relating to the office of the
Part-time Chairman and reimburses all the expenses incurred
in performance of his duties.
b) Shareholder's Rights
The Bank publishes its results on its website at www.hdfcbank.com
which is accessible to the public at large. The same are also
available on the websites of the Stock Exchanges on which the
Bank's shares are listed.
A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including
summary of the significant events is presently not being sent
separately to each shareholder. The Bank's results for each
quarter are published in an English newspaper having a nation-
wide circulation and in a Marathi newspaper having a nation-
wide circulation in Maharashtra. Hence, half-yearly results are
not sent to the shareholders individually.
c) Audit Qualifications
During the period under review, there is no audit qualification in
the Bank's financial statements. The Bank continues to adopt
best practices to ensure regime of unmodified audit opinion.
d) Separate posts of Chairperson and Managing
Director/ Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty is the Part-time Chairman and
Independent Director of the Bank and Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
is the Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Bank.
e) Reporting of Internal Auditor
The Internal Auditor of the Bank reports to the Audit Committee
of the Bank.
OWNERSHIP RIGHTS
The Bank seeks to protect and facilitate the exercise of the rights
of its shareholders including the following:
路 To carry out transmission / transposition and deletion
of name on the share certificates(s) and receive the duly
endorsed share certificates within the period prescribed in
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
路 To receive notice of general meetings, annual report,
the balance sheet and profit and loss account and the
auditor's report.
路 To attend and speak in person, at general meetings.
路 To appoint proxy to attend and vote at the general meetings.
In case the member is a body corporate, to appoint a
representative to attend and vote at the general meetings
of the company on its behalf.
. Proxy can vote on a poll. In case of vote on poll, the number
of votes of a shareholder is proportionate to the number
of equity shares held by him. In case of the 28th Annual
General Meeting of the Bank which will be conducted by
Video-Conferencing /Other Audio-Visual Means pursuant
to the relevant MCA circulars, physical attendance of the
shareholders has been dispensed with and accordingly, the
386