Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
the VCF in its financial statements. Units are valued based
on the latest audited financials of the VCF if available or at
₹ 1 per VCF as per the RBI guidelines.
Pass Through Certificates (PTC) including Priority Sector-
PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit spread as
applicable for the NBFC category, based on the credit rating
of the respective PTC over the YTM rates for government
of India securities published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the
calculating agent.
Net depreciation, if any, compared to the acquisition cost,
in any of the six groups, is charged to the Profit and Loss
Account. The net appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups
is not recognised except to the extent of depreciation
provided earlier. The book value of individual securities is
not changed on such revaluation of investments.
Investments classified under HTM category are carried
at their acquisition cost and not marked to market. Any
premium on acquisition is amortised over the remaining
maturity period of the security on a constant yield to
maturity basis. Such amortisation of premium is adjusted
against interest income from investments. Any diminution,
other than temporary, in the value of investments in HTM
category is provided for.
Non-performing investments are identified and provision
are made thereon based on the RBI guidelines. The
provision on such non-performing investments are not set
off against the appreciation in respect of other performing
investments. Interest on non-performing investments is not
recognised until received.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse
Repo) transactions are reflected as borrowing and lending
transactions respectively.
Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions
is accounted as interest income.
HDFC Securities Limited
Investments that are readily realisable and are intended
to be held for not more than one year from the date, on
which such investments are made, are classified as current
investments. All other investments are classified as long
term investments. Current investments are carried at cost
or fair value, whichever is lower. Long-term investments are
carried at cost. However, provision for diminution is made
to recognise a decline, other than temporary, in the value
of the investments, such reduction being determined and
made for each investment individually.
HDB Financial Services Limited
Investments expected to mature after twelve months are
taken as long term / non-current investment and stated
at cost. Provision is recognised only in case of diminution,
which is other than temporary in nature. Investments
maturing within three months from the date of acquisition
are classified as cash equivalents if they are readily
convertible into cash. All other investments are recognised
as short term / current investments and are valued at lower
of cost and net realisable value.
2
Advances
HDFC Bank Limited
Classification:
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific
provisions, interest in suspense for non-performing
advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors,
provisions for funded interest term loan and provision for
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
Provisioning:
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
advances are made based on management's assessment
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI.
The specific provision for retail non-performing assets are
also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels.
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
advances are included under Provisions and Contingencies.
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance
with the Bank's policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
off are included under other income.
In relation to derivative contracts, with non-performing
borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive
marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets
including credit exposures computed as per the current
marked to market values of interest rate and foreign
exchange derivative contracts and gold. In the case of
overseas branches, general provision on standard assets
is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the
respective overseas regulator or RBI. Provision for standard
assets is included under other liabilities.
In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis
makes provisions on advances or exposures which are not
NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 321