Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
· Section 206AB of the Act
Rate of TDS @10% under Section 194 of the Act is subject to
provisions of Section 206AB of the Act which provides for TDS
in respect of non-filers of income-tax return. As provided in
Section 206AB, tax is required to be deducted at the highest of
following rates in case of payments to specified persons:
- at twice the rate specified in the relevant provision of
the Act; or
- at twice the rate or rates in force; or
- at the rate of 5%.
As per Central Board of Direct Taxes vide Circular No. 11 of 2021
dated June 21, 2021, for determining TDS rate on dividend, the
Bank will be using functionality of the Income-tax department to
determine the applicability of Section 206AB of the Act.
To summarise, dividend will be paid after deducting the tax at
source as under:
i.
Nil for resident shareholders receiving dividend upto
₹ 5,000/- or in case Form 15G / Form 15H (as applicable)
along with self-attested copy of the PAN card is submitted.
ii.
10% for other resident shareholders in case copy of PAN
card is provided / available.
iii.
20% for resident shareholders if copy of PAN card is not
provided / not available / not linked with Aadhaar Number.
iv.
Tax will be assessed on the basis of documents submitted
by the non-resident shareholders.
V.
20% plus applicable surcharge and cess for non-
resident shareholders in case the relevant documents are
not submitted.
vi.
Lower / Nil TDS on submission of self-attested copy of the
valid certificate issued under Section 197 of the Act.
Aforesaid rates will be subject to applicability of section 206AB
of the Act.
In terms of Rule 37BA of the Income Tax Rules, 1962, if dividend
income on which tax has been deducted at source is assessable
in the hands of a person other than the deductee, then such
deductee should file declaration with the Bank in the manner
prescribed by the said rules.
In case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate in the
absence of receipt or defect in any of the aforementioned details
/ documents, you will be able to claim refund of the excess
tax deducted by filing your income tax return. No claim shall lie
against the Bank for such taxes deducted.
Updation of Bank account details
While on the subject, we request you to submit / update your
bank account details with your Depository Participant, in case
you are holding shares in the electronic form. In case your
shareholding is in the physical form, you will have to submit a
scanned copy of a covering letter mentioning the folio number,
duly signed by you, along with a cancelled cheque leaf with your
name and bank account details and a self-attested copy of your
PAN. This will facilitate receipt of dividend directly into your bank
account. In case the cancelled cheque leaf does not bear your
name, please attach a copy of the bank pass-book statement,
duly self-attested.
Disclaimer: The information set out herein above is included for
general information purposes only and does not constitute legal
or tax advice. Since the tax consequences are dependent on
facts and circumstances of each case, the investors are advised
to consult their own tax consultant with respect to specific tax
implications arising out of receipt of dividend.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
427