Report on Corporate Governance
NJ, USA, and an A.A.B.A. in business from Bergen County
College, Fairlawn, NJ, USA. He is a director on the Board of Eewa
Engineering Company Private Limited, a company in the plastics
/ packaging industry with exports to more than 50 countries.
He has been involved in varied roles such as export / import,
procurement, sales and marketing, etc. in Eewa Engineering
Company Private Limited.
Mr. Malay Patel has special knowledge and practical experience
in matters relating to small scale industries in terms of Section
10-A (2 a) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Mr. Patel is also on the Board of the following public limited
company(ies):
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
-
HDFC Securities Limited
(Independent Director)
Mr. Patel does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March
31, 2022.
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (DIN: 02040436)
[Independent Director]
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, aged seventy (70) years, holds a
Master's degree in Science (Botany) from Utkal University (gold
medalist).
Mr. Sarangi has over three decades of experience in Indian
Administrative Service and brought in significant reforms in
modernizing of agriculture, focus on agro processing and export.
As the erstwhile Chairman of National Bank for Agricultural
and Rural Development (NABARD) from December 2007 to
December 2010, Mr. Sarangi focused on rural infrastructure,
accelerated initiatives such as microfinance, financial inclusion,
watershed development and tribal development.
Mr. Sarangi has specialized knowledge and experience in
agriculture and rural economy pursuant to Section 10-A (2)(a) of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Mr. Sarangi is not a director in any other listed or public
limited company.
Mr. Sarangi does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March
31, 2022.
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar (DIN: 02013812)
[Independent Director]
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, aged sixty-four (64) years, is a Fellow Associate
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and former
Senior Partner of Egon Zehnder, the world's largest privately
held executive search firm.
Mr. Sachar set up the Egon Zehnder practice in India in 1995 and
played a key role in establishing the firm as a market leader in the
executive search space across various country segments. Over
the course of his two decades at Egon Zehnder, Mr. Sachar has
mentored senior executives across industry sectors that today
are either Board members, CEOs or CFOs of large corporates
in India and overseas. Mr. Sachar has also been the co-founder
of the chartered accountancy and management consulting
firm, Sachar Vasudeva & Associates and co-founded executive
search firm, Direct Impact.
Mr. Sachar is also on the Board of the following public
company(ies):
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
KDDL Limited
-
(Independent Director)
Mr. Sachar does not hold any shares in the Bank as on March
31, 2022.
Mr. Sandeep Parekh (DIN: 03268043)
[Independent Director]
Mr. Sandeep Parekh, aged fifty (50) years, holds an LL.M.
(Securities and Financial Regulations) degree from Georgetown
University and an LL.B. degree from Delhi University. He is the
managing partner of Finsec Law Advisors, a financial sector
law firm based in Mumbai. He was an Executive Director at
the Securities & Exchange Board of India during 2006-08,
heading the Enforcement and Legal Affairs departments. He
is a faculty at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
He has worked for law firms in Delhi, Mumbai and Washington,
D.C. Mr. Parekh focuses on securities regulations, investment
regulations, private equity, corporate governance and financial
regulations. He is admitted to practice law in New York. He was
recognized by the World Economic Forum as a "Young Global
Leader" in 2008. He was Chairman and member of various SEBI
and RBI Committees and sub-Committees and is presently a
member of SEBI's Mutual Fund Advisory Committee.
Mr. Parekh is not a director in any other listed or public
limited company.
Mr. Parekh does not hold any shares in the Bank as on
March 31, 2022.
Mr. M. D. Ranganath (DIN: 07565125)
[Independent Director]
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, aged sixty (60) years, holds Master's
degree in technology from IIT, Madras and a Bachelor's degree
in Engineering from the University of Mysore. He is a PGDM from
IIM, Ahmedabad and a member of CPA, Australia.
Mr. Ranganath has over twenty eight (28) years of experience
in the Global IT services and financial services industry. He
is currently President of Catamaran Ventures. He was Chief
Financial Officer of Infosys Limited, a globally listed IT services
368