Overview
Introduction to
Our
HDFC Bank
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Composition:
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi (Chairman), Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan and Mr.
Sanjiv Sachar
Details of re-constitution:
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi was designated as the Chairman, Mr. Malay Patel and Mr. Sandeep Parekh ceased to
be the members, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha were inducted as the members of the Committee with
effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings:
The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 13, 2021, October 19, 2021 and January 12, 2022
CUSTOMER SERVICE COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of
Reference / Roles and
Responsibilities:
The Committee has been constituted to monitor and bring about continuous improvements in the quality of services
rendered to the customers and also to ensure implementation of directives received from the Reserve Bank of
India (RBI) in this regard. The terms of reference of the Committee are to formulate comprehensive deposit policy
incorporating the issues arising out of the demise of a depositor for operation of his account, the product approval
process, annual survey of depositor satisfaction and the triennial audit of such services. The Committee is constituted
to bring about continuous improvements in the quality of customer services provided by the Bank. The Committee
would also oversee the functioning of the Standing Committee on Customer Service, and also bring out innovative
measures for enhancing the customer experience and quality of customer service thereby enhancing the customer
satisfaction level across all categories of clientele, at all times.
Composition:
Mr Umesh Chandra Sarangi (Chairman), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari,
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty.
Details of re-constitution:
. Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
路 Mr. Malay Patel ceased to be the member of the Committee and Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi was designated as
the Chairman, Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari, Mr. Kaizad Bharucha and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty were inducted as
the members of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
Meetings:
The Committee met five (5) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, June 17, 2021, July 14, 2021, October 19, 2021 and January 12, 2022
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & ESG (CSR & ESG) COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of
Reference / Roles and
Responsibilities:
The CSR & ESG Committee of the Board has been constituted to identify, execute and monitor CSR projects and
assist the Board and the Bank in fulfilling its corporate social responsibility objectives and achieving the desired results.
The Committee shall also ensure legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR perspective and reporting as well as
communication to all the stakeholders on the Bank's CSR initiatives.
The terms of reference of the Committee are:
路 To formulate the Bank's CSR Strategy, Policy and Goals
. To monitor the Bank's CSR policy and performance
路 To review the CSR projects / initiatives from time to time
路 To ensure legal and regulatory compliance from a CSR viewpoint
. To ensure reporting and communication to the Bank's stakeholders on the Bank's CSR
. To monitor the Bank's ESG Framework, strategy, goals and disclosures
Composition:
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (Chairperson), Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Malay Patel, Mrs. Renu Karnad and Mr. Kaizad
Bharucha.
Details of re-constitution:
. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
. Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi ceased to be the Chairman and member of the Committee and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita
Maheshwari was elected as the Chairperson of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 377