Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Culture
For me, creating a good culture is as much a priority as
driving growth. I am committed, along with my senior
management colleagues, to walk the talk on culture.
An organisation is made of people, and it is the people that
deliver the organisation to all the stakeholders. We have a
talent pool of 1,41,000+ colleagues who are the Bank to our
customers. We are ensuring that the supervisory pool of
12,000 odd colleagues including the senior management, is
responsible for nurturing the vastly talented front line, hand
hold them in their personal and professional growth and
create a great working environment.
You could well accuse us of being on an overdrive on our
culture agenda. We continue to work towards creating an
organisation where diversity and inclusion becomes a part
of the DNA, where differences are valued and respected,
where conversations are friendly and warm and where
the emotional needs of our colleagues and customers are
fulfilled.
To enhance our employee capabilities, we are fostering
a culture of Nurture, Care and Collaborate (NCC) in the
organisation. Customers experience the organisation
through the employees and employees experience the
organisation through their managers.
At HDFC Bank, we continuously measure our employee
performance engagement scores. While our engagement
scores are healthy at 83%, we still believe we have a long
road to travel. Through our NCC intervention, 12,000+
people managers are certified on the elements of our
culture pillars and the role they play as culture custodians.
Our people managers are also continuously provided
with various trainings and tools to improve themselves
professionally. We will keep listening to our colleagues'
feedback and keep evolving our people management
practices - it's a continuing investment that we will
keep making.
Building for the Future
Last year I had spoken about Project Future Ready, to
catalyse, create and capture the next wave of growth. We
had clearly spelt out the following as growth engines -
Retail Assets, Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking,
Corporate Banking, Government and Institutional Banking,
Wealth Management, and Payments. to be driven by our
delivery channels of Branch Banking, Tele-Sales/Service/
Relationship and Digital Marketing. These growth engines
can be broadly classified as Business Verticals and Delivery
Channels. They will be powered by our robust technology
and digital platforms and will account for the bulk of our
future investments.
We have seen progress across our growth engines.
Our focus on the MSME sector is paying off, with our
Commercial and Rural Banking Group emerging as a strong
growth driver (up 30.4%). We leveraged the opportunity
available in the Corporate Banking sector (up 17.4%) without
any compromise on our ROA. We are expanding our wealth
management services to more cities and towns (now 700+
towns). Our Retail Loans continue to grow in the same
pristine way (up 15.2%). Our Payments business is starting
to recover well, post the lifting of the embargo and with the
slew of new launches completed.
Branch Banking is the fulcrum of our customer relationships.
We believe both physical proximity to and emotional connect
with our customers are equally important. Our addition of
734 branches even during the tough pandemic year has
served us well and we are closely tracking the success
metrics of per branch profitability and productivity. Our
relationship management has been further strengthened by
the tele sales-service-relationship vertical with enhanced
investments in both people and technology capabilities (29%
increase in customers managed with 40% plus increase in
business). Digital Marketing continues to make strides as
a new delivery channel, creating and harnessing the traffic
(up 15%) on our digital properties and contributing to direct
business generation.
Our core enabling functions of Internal Audit, Credit
and Underwriting, Risk Management and Compliance/
Governance are being strengthened even further to support
our growth.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
13