Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of the
fixed assets on a straight line basis in the manner prescribed
in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. The estimated
lives used and differences from the lives prescribed under
Schedule II are noted in the table below:
Asset
Estimated useful
life as assessed by
the Company
Estimated useful
life under Schedule
II of Companies
Act, 2013
Building
60 years
60 years
Leasehold
improvements
Tenure of lease
agreements
Tenure of lease
agreements
Motor cars
4 years
8 years
Computers
2-5 years
3 years
Furniture and
fixtures
3-7 years
10 years
Office equipments
3 years
5 years
· Improvements to lease hold premises are charged
off over the primary period of lease or its useful life,
whichever is lower.
· Items costing less than ₹ 5,000 are fully depreciated
in the year of purchase.
· The Company has estimated Nil residual value at the
end of the useful life for all block of assets.
· For assets purchased and sold during the year,
depreciation is being provided on pro-rata basis by
the Company.
Software and system development expenditure are
capitalised at cost of acquisition including cost attributable
to bring the same in working condition and the useful life
of the same is estimated of 3 years with zero residual
value. Any expenses on such software for support and
maintenance payable annually are charged to the Profit
and Loss Account.
5
Impairment of assets
The Group assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the
carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated
recoverable amount.
6
Translation of foreign currency items
HDFC Bank Limited
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic
operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing
on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure
items of integral foreign operations (representative offices)
are translated at the weekly average closing rates and
of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches and
offshore banking units) at the monthly average closing rates.
Foreign currency monetary items of domestic and integral
foreign operations are translated at the closing exchange
rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers' Association
of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance Sheet date and the
resulting net revaluation profit or loss arising due to a net
open position in any foreign currency is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations
are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the
Foreign Currency Translation Account until disposal of the
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS - 11,
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and the
extant RBI guidelines.
Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on
account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts,
guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and
endorsements are reported at closing rates of exchange
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
HDFC Securities Limited
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the rates
of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences, if any arising out of transactions
settled during the year are recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated
in foreign currencies as at the Balance Sheet date are
translated at the closing exchange rate on that date. The
exchange differences, if any, are recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account and related assets and liabilities are
accordingly restated in the Balance Sheet.
Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
7
HDFC Bank Limited
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, both
deliverable and non-deliverable, outstanding as at the
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued
at the closing spot and forward rates respectively as
notified by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts of
interim maturities.
The USD-INR exchange rate for valuation of contracts
having longer maturities i.e. greater than one year, is derived
using the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant INR yield
curve and USD yield curve. For other currency pairs, the
forward points (for rates / tenors not published by FEDAI)
are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of the
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 325