Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
4.
Integrated with Government of India's e-National
Agricultural Marketplace
5.
Enabled more than 90,000 MSMEs to be eligible to transact
on the Government e-marketplace
6. Processed more than 130 million transactions using
Government of India's Public Financial Management
System to transfer funds to beneficiaries
7.
Processed about 26% of the funds flowing from the Central
Government to the states for development programs under
the aegis of the Centrally sponsored schemes, Central
sector schemes, and 15th Finance Commission
8. Received collection mandates from the following two state
Governments - Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh
D) Semi-Urban and Rural
The Semi-urban and Rural markets have always been a focus of
your Bank's strategy. In the last few years, your Bank has made
a renewed push into the Semi-urban and rural markets as rising
income levels and aspirations of rural customers are leading to
demand for better quality financial products and services. The
rural groups in every department of your Bank work together to
tap these opportunities.
Apart from meeting its statutory obligations under PSL (Agri &
Allied activities, Small and Marginal Farmers and weaker sections
etc), your Bank has been offering a wide range of products on
the asset side, such as auto, two-wheeler, personal, gold, Light
Commercial Vehicle (LCV), small shopkeeper loans in these
markets. Now it plans to increase its coverage of villages and
deepen relationships in existing ones. The semi-urban and rural
push has been backed by the Bank's digital strategy.
Your Bank's operations in Semi-urban and Rural locations are
explained below:
Agriculture and Allied Activities
Your Bank's assets in Agriculture & Allied activities stood at
₹134,487.50 crore as on March 31, 2022.
In general, the key to your Bank's success in the existing market
is its ability to tap the opportunities through:
- Wide product range
- Faster turnaround time
- Digital solutions
The Bank's product range includes pre-and post-harvest
crop loans, farm development/investment loans, two- wheeler
loans, auto loans, tractor loans, small agri business loans, loan
against gold, among others. This has helped the Bank establish
a strong footprint in the rural hinterland with its asset products.
Apart from advising farmers on their financial needs, your Bank
is increasingly focusing on facilitating various Government/
Regulatory schemes and non-crop segment covering agri allied
and small agri business enterprises including rural MSMEs.
Your Bank has designed a range of crop and geography-
specific products in line with the harvest cycles and the local
needs of farmers across diverse Agro-climatic zones. It has
transformed rural banking services from being product centric
to customer centric.
Products such as post-harvest cash credit and warehouse
receipt financing enable faster cash flows to farmers. Credit
is also offered for allied agricultural activities such as dairy,
pisciculture, and sericulture.
Participation in Government Schemes
As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to give a fillip to the
Indian economy and to make every Indian citizen self-reliant, the
Government of India has announced several schemes/enablers
across several sectors, more particularly in the agriculture sector.
Your Bank is implementing almost all such initiatives/schemes
targeting multiple stakeholders of the agri ecosystem.
Agricultural Infrastructure Fund (AIF) Scheme: Through
this scheme the Bank is offering medium to long-term debt
facility for investment in viable projects pertaining to post harvest
management, infrastructure development such as construction
of warehouses/silos.
Your Bank has actively participated in agri infrastructure
campaigns conducted by PMU, AIF (Ministry of Agriculture) and
stood #1 amongst private sector Banks. As on March 31, your
Bank has sanctioned ₹ 427 crore covering 298 projects.
Farmer Produce Organisations (FPOs): Leveraging the
Government scheme for formation and promotion of 10k new
FPOs (Credit guarantee is available from SFAC/NABARD), your
Bank is funding eligible FPOs for working capital and term loan
requirements. Through this initiative, your Bank will be able to
reach a larger number of small and marginal farmers.
Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Food and Micro
Enterprises (PMFME): Your Bank is actively implementing the
scheme and passing the benefits to all eligible borrowers in the
food processing sector.
Other Agri schemes include Agri Marketing Infrastructure Fund,
Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Fund, Pradhan Mantri Kisan
Urja Suraksha evam Utthaan Mahabhiyan (PMKUSUM), Mission
for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) as well as
state specific Government schemes.
Your Bank's focus in the rural markets has not just been on
increasing credit offtake, but also on cementing relationships
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
141