Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
· The Bank has presented gross unrealised gain on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other assets and
gross unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts under other liabilities. Accordingly, other liabilities
as at March 31, 2022 include unrealised loss on foreign exchange and derivative contracts of ₹ 7,464.74 crore (previous
year: ₹ 8,127.65 crore).
9. Unhedged foreign currency exposure
The Bank has in place a policy and process for managing currency induced credit risk. The credit appraisal memorandum
prepared at the time of origination and review of a credit facility is required to discuss the exchange risk that the customer
is exposed to from all sources, including trade related, foreign currency borrowings and external commercial borrowings. It
could cover the natural hedge available to the customer as well as other hedging methods adopted by the customer to mitigate
exchange risk. For foreign currency loans granted by the Bank beyond a defined threshold the customer is encouraged to
enter into appropriate risk hedging mechanisms with the Bank. Alternatively, the Bank satisfies itself that the customer has
the financial capacity to bear the exchange risk in the normal course of its business and / or has other mitigants to reduce the
risk. On a monthly basis, the Bank reviews information on the unhedged portion of foreign currency exposures of customers,
whose total foreign currency exposure with the Bank exceeds a defined threshold. Based on the monthly review, the Bank
proposes suitable hedging techniques to the customer to contain the risk. A Board approved credit risk rating linked limit on
unhedged foreign currency position of customers is applicable when extending credit facilities to a customer. The compliance
with the limit is assessed by estimating the extent of drop in a customer's annual Earnings Before Interest and Depreciation
('EBID') due to a potentially large adverse movement in exchange rate impacting the unhedged foreign currency exposure of
the customer. Where a breach is observed in such a simulation, the customer is advised to reduce its unhedged exposure.
In accordance with RBI guidelines, as at March 31, 2022 the Bank holds standard asset provisions of ₹ 355.00 crore (previous
year: ₹ 230.31 crore) and maintains capital (including CCB & D-SIB) of ₹ 1,412.67 crore (previous year: ₹ 918.77 crore) in respect
of the unhedged foreign currency exposure of its customers.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 243