Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of
Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of the
stock-based employee compensation is estimated using
Black-Scholes model. The compensation cost is amortised
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option
with a corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options
Reserve. On exercise of the stock options, corresponding
balance in Employee Stock Options Reserve is transferred
to Share Premium. In respect of the options which expire
unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee
Stock Options Reserve is transferred to General Reserve.
Gratuity:
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees.
The plan benefit vests upon completion of five years of
service and is in the form of lump sum amount, without an
upper limit, equivalent to 15 days' basic salary payable for
each completed year of service to all eligible employees on
resignation, retirement, death while in employment or on
termination of employment. The Bank makes contributions
to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and
whose funds are managed by insurance companies. In
respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) employees,
the Bank makes contribution to a fund set up by eLKB and
administered by the Board of Trustees.
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service
costs. The actuarial calculations entails assumptions about
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and
interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account.
Superannuation:
The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum
equivalent to 13% of the employee's eligible annual basic
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of
Punjab (eCBoP) staff) to a Trust administered by trustees
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies.
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation
fund benefits other than its contribution and recognises
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
Provident fund:
The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly
all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits
under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount,
on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12%
of employee's basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes
an amount equal to 8.33% of employee's basic salary up
to a maximum salary level of ₹ 15,000/- per month, to the
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident
Fund Office. The balance amount of the 12% employer's
share is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the
Bank and administered by a Board of Trustees. The Bank
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year in
which it is incurred.
Interest payable to the members of the exempted trust shall
not be lower than the statutory rate of interest declared by
the Central Government under the Employees Provident
Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and
shortfall, if any, shall be made good by the Bank.
The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer established
provident funds, which require interest shortfalls to be
provided, are to be considered as defined benefit plans.
Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund interest shortfall
is done as per the guidance note issued in this respect by
The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) and provision towards
this liability is made.
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution to the
respective applicable government social security scheme
calculated as a percentage of the employees' salaries.
The Bank's obligations are limited to these contributions,
which are expensed when due, as such contribution is in
the nature of defined contribution.
Pension:
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees and
an additional amount towards the liability shortfall based on
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet
date, which includes assumptions about demographics,
early retirement, salary increases and interest rates.
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as a
fund and will be converted into annuity on separation after a
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 235