Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
present value basis. For this purpose, the forward profit
or loss on the deals are discounted till the valuation date
using the discounting yields. The resulting profit or loss
on valuation is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Foreign exchange contracts are classified as assets when
the fair value is positive (positive marked to market value) or
as liabilities when the fair value is negative (negative marked
to market value).
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for
trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of
reporting currency required or available at the settlement
date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance
Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate.
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such
forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or
income over the life of the contract.
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, on
the date on which the derivative contracts are entered into
and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance Sheet
date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value
is positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities
when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market
value).
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign
exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of
the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of
the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow
hedges, the changes in fair value of effective portion are
recognised in Reserves and Surplus under 'Cash flow
hedge reserve' and ineffective portion of an effective
hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is
recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time
that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account.
8
Revenue recognition
Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account
on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-performing
assets and overdue interest on retail EMI based performing
advances, which are recognised when realised. In case
of domestic advances, where interest is collected on rear
end basis, such interest is accounted on receipt basis in
accordance with the RBI communication.
Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans bought
out through the direct assignment route is recognised at
their effective interest rate.
Income on non-coupon bearing discounted instruments is
recognised over the tenor of the instrument on a constant
yield basis.
Loan processing fee is recognised as income when due.
Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as income when
a significant act / milestone is completed.
Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line with
the extant RBI guidelines.
Dividend on equity shares, preference shares and on
mutual fund units is recognised as income when the right
to receive the dividend is established.
Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit,
annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards
are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period
of contract. Other fees and commission income are
recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably
certain of ultimate collection.
Fees paid / received for priority sector lending certificates
(PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis over the period
of the certificate.
9
Employee benefits
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS):
The Employee Stock Option Scheme ('the Scheme')
provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares
of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors.
The options granted to employees vest as per their vesting
schedule and these may be exercised by the employees
within a specified period.
The Bank follows the intrinsic value method to account for
its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect of
options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation cost
is measured by the excess, if any, of the market price of
the underlying stock over the exercise price as determined
under the option plan. The market price is the closing
price on the stock exchange where there is highest trading
volume on the working day immediately preceding the date
of grant. Compensation cost, if any is amortised over the
vesting period.
Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in
234