Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
company, till November, 2018. During his tenure of 18 years at
Infosys, he was an integral part of the growth and transformation
of Infosys into a globally respected IT services company and
effectively played leadership roles in a wide spectrum of areas-
Strategy, Finance, Merger & Acquisition (M&A), Consulting, Risk
Management, and Corporate planning- culminating in the role
of Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Infosys, he worked at ICICI
Limited for 8 years and executed responsibilities in credit,
treasury, equity portfolio management and corporate planning.
In the years 2017 and 2018, Mr. Ranganath was the recipient of
the Best CFO Asia award in the technology sector, by Institutional
Investor publication, based on poll of buy-side and sell-side
investor community.
Mr. Ranganath is not a director in any other company.
Mr. Ranganath does not hold any shares in the Bank as on
March 31, 2022.
Mrs. Renu Karnad (DIN: 00008064)
[Non-Executive Non-Independent Director]
Mrs. Renu Karnad, aged sixty-nine (69) years, is the Managing
Director of Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
since 2010. She holds a Master's degree in Economics from
the University of Delhi and a Bachelor's degree in Law from
the University of Mumbai. She is also a Parvin Fellow-Woodrow
Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, Princeton
University, USA. Mrs. Karnad brings with her rich experience and
knowledge of the mortgage sector, having been associated with
real estate and mortgage industry in India for over 40 years. Over
the years, she has been the recipient of numerous awards and
accolades, such as the 'Outstanding Woman Business Leader'
award granted by CBNC-TV18 India Business Leader Awards
2012, induction in the Hall of Fame, Fortune India magazine's
most powerful women from 2011 to 2019, 'Top Ten Powerful
Women to watch out for in Asia' by Wall Street Journal Asia in
2006, etc.
Mrs. Karnad is on the Board of the following public companies:
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
Housing Development Finance
HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Corporation Limited
Company Limited
(Managing Director)
(Non-Executive Director)
HDFC Asset Management
Bangalore International Airport
Company Limited
Limited
(Non-Executive Director)
(Independent Director)
HDFC Life Insurance Company
Limited
(Non-Executive Director)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals
Limited
(Non-Executive Director)
Unitech Limited
(Nominee of the Central
Government)*
*(Mrs. Karnad tendered her resignation from Unitech Limited with effect
from March 24, 2022 and completion of necessary formalities is awaited,
including placing the same before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, for
its kind consideration.)
Mrs. Karnad, along with her relatives, holds 5,95,320 equity
shares in the Bank as on March 31, 2022.
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari (DIN 01641411)
[Independent Director]
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari aged fifty-six (56) years is a US
Board certified Pediatric Cardiologist, and completed her MBBS
at Osmania Medical College followed by post-graduation at
AIIMS, Delhi and Yale University in the US. With over thirty (30)
years of experience, she has lived and worked in the US and
India. In addition to being a clinician, Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is a
medical entrepreneur and co-founder at:
(a) Teleradiology Solutions (India's first and largest teleradiology
company that has provided over 5 million diagnostic reports
to patients and hospitals globally including for the Tripura
state government),
(b)
Telrad Tech which builds AI enabled tele health software and
RXDX healthcare - a chain of multi-specialty neighbourhood
(c)
clinics in Bangalore.
She has also incubated other start-up companies in the tele-
health space such as Healtheminds - a tele-counselling
platform. She is active in the social arena in India where she
runs 2 trust funds. 'People4people' has put up over 450
playgrounds in government schools and Telrad Foundation
provides teleradiology and telemedicine services to poor areas
in Asia that do not have access to high quality medical care. Her
other interests include teaching - she has been running India's
e-teaching program for postgraduates in Pediatric Cardiology for
over a decade. In 2019, she helped the Kerala National health
mission Hridayam launch e-classes in pediatric cardiology for
pediatricians in the state.
She has over 200 academic presentations and publications to
her credit and is an inspirational speaker having given over 200
lectures, including several TEDx talks. Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is
the recipient of several prestigious awards and honours including:
WOW (Woman of Worth) 2019 award, Outlook Business; 50
most powerful women of India, March 2016; Amazing Indian
award- Times Now 2014; Top 20 women Health care achievers
in India, Modern Medicare 2009; Yale University- Outstanding
Fellow Teacher of the Year Award, 1995, amongst others.
Dr. (Mrs.) Maheshwari is on the Board of the following public
company(ies):
Listed Public Limited Companies
Other Public Limited Companies
Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals -
Limited
(Independent Director)
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
369