Report on Corporate Governance
[Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 {"the SEBI Listing Regulations"} and forming a part of the report of the Board of Directors]
Corporate Governance Framework
Shareholders
œ
Regulators
Board of Directors
œ
œ
œ
œ
œ
œ
Audit
Committee
Stakeholders'
Relationship
Committee
Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee
œ
Risk Policy &
Monitoring
Committee
Other
Committees
œ
External and
Internal Auditors
Managing Director
œ
Executive Director
· The Board of Directors of the Bank are the ultimate
custodians of governance.
· The Board of Directors are accountable to various
stakeholders such as shareholders, regulatory authorities
including Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, etc.
· The Bank has an engaged, experienced, diverse and a
well-informed Board. Through the governance framework
in the Bank, the Board along with its Committees, each
with defined roles, undertakes its responsibilities towards
all its stakeholders.
· The joint Statutory Auditors have a reporting responsibility
to the Audit Committee.
· The Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer is
responsible for the overall affairs of the Bank, under the
superintendence, guidance and control of the Board
of Directors.
· The Executive Director, under the guidance of the Managing
Director, has over-sight over various business functions.
Philosophy on Code of Corporate Governance
The Bank believes in adopting and adhering to the best
recognized corporate governance practices and continuously
benchmarking itself against each such practice. The Bank
understands and respects its role and responsibility towards its
shareholders and strives hard to meet their expectations.
The Bank believes that best board governance practices,
transparent disclosures and shareholder empowerment are
necessary for creating shareholder value. The Bank has infused
the philosophy of corporate governance into all its activities.
The philosophy on corporate governance is an important tool
for shareholder protection and maximization of their long-
term values. The cardinal principles such as independence,
accountability, responsibility, transparency, fair and timely
disclosures, credibility, sustainability, etc. serve as the means
for implementing the philosophy of corporate governance in
letter and in spirit.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
365