Directors' Report
(h)
HDFC Limited's rural housing network and affordable
housing lending is likely to qualify for HDFC Bank as priority
sector lending and will also enable a higher flow of credit
into priority sector lending, including agriculture;
(i)
the amalgamation will result in reducing HDFC Bank's
proportion of exposure to unsecured loans;
(j)
HDFC Limited has built technological capabilities to
evaluate the credit worthiness of customers using
analytical models, and has developed unique skills in
financing various customer segments. The models have
been tested and refined over the years at scale and HDFC
Bank will benefit from such expertise in underwriting and
financing of mortgage offerings;
(k)
HDFC Bank can leverage on the loan management
system, comprising rule engines, IT tools and rules, agents
connected through a central system;
(l)
The amalgamation is expected to result in bolstering the
capital base and bringing in resiliency in the balance sheet
of HDFC Bank.
(m) HDFC Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited
are Systemically Important Non - Deposit Taking Non -
Banking Financial Companies and are also wholly owned
subsidiaries of HDFC Limited. The proposed amalgamation
shall result in simplified corporate structure.
The Scheme is subject to receipt of requisite approvals, including
from statutory and regulatory authorities, as required under
applicable laws. The scheme has been filed with BSE Limited,
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and Reserve Bank
of India.
Statement on Declaration by Independent Directors
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, Mrs. Lily Vadera, Mr. Malay Patel,
Mr. M. D. Ranganath, Mr. Sanjiv Sachar, Mr. Sandeep Parekh,
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari and Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
are the Independent Directors on the Board of the Bank as on
March 31, 2022.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 of the Act, the
Independent Directors have submitted declarations that each of
them meets the criteria of independence as provided in Section
149(6) of the Act along with Rules framed thereunder and
Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015. There has been no change in the circumstances affecting
their status as Independent Directors of the Bank. In the opinion
of the Board, the Independent Directors possess the requisite
integrity, experience, expertise and proficiency required under
all applicable laws and the policies of the Bank.
Board Performance Evaluation
The performance evaluation of the Board, Committees of the
Board and the individual members of the Board (including the
Chairman) for FY 2021-22, was carried out internally pursuant to
the framework laid down by the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (NRC). A questionnaire for the evaluation of the
Board, its Committees and the individual members of the Board
(including the Chairman), designed in accordance with the said
framework and covering various aspects of the performance
of the Board and its Committees, including composition, roles
and responsibilities, Board processes, Boardroom culture,
adherence to Code of Conduct and Ethics, quality and flow of
information, as well as measurement of performance in the areas
of strength and areas of focus, as identified in the previous year's
evaluation, was sent out to the Directors. The Committees were
evaluated inter alia on parameters such as composition, terms of
reference, quality of discussions, contribution to Board decisions
and balance of agenda between the Committee and the Board.
The responses received to the questionnaires on evaluation of
the Board and its Committees were placed before the meeting
of the Independent Directors for consideration. The assessment
of performance of Non-Independent Directors on key personal
and professional attributes was also carried out at the meeting
of Independent Directors. The assessment of performance of
the Independent Directors on the Board (including Chairman)
was subsequently discussed by the Board. In addition to the
above parameters, the Board also evaluated fulfillment of the
independence criteria as specified in SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 by the
Independent Directors of the Bank and their independence from
the management.
The evaluation brought out the cohesiveness of the Board, a
Boardroom culture of trust and cooperation, and Boardroom
discussions which are open, transparent and encourage diverse
viewpoints. Other areas of strength included effective discharge
of Board's roles and responsibilities. Some of the areas of focus
for the Board going forward included increasing time dedicated
to strategy- competitive positioning and benchmark, long term
succession planning and talent management, improvement in
Board processes and quality of information. The Board also
noted that while there has been positive development in the
areas of focus identified in the previous year's evaluation, efforts
need to continue in that direction. The appropriate feedback
was conveyed to the Board members and other concerned
stakeholders, for suitable action.
Policy on Appointment and Remuneration of
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
Your Bank has in place a Policy for appointment and fit and
proper criteria for Directors of the Bank. The Policy lays down
156