Independent Auditor's Report
Information Technology ("IT") Systems and Controls
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support its day-to-day
business operations. High volume of transactions are processed and
recorded on single or multiple applications.
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in the business
operations of the Bank. Since large volume of transactions are
processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that applications
process data as expected and that changes are made in an appropriate
manner.
Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
For testing the IT general controls, application controls and IT dependent
manual controls, we involved specialists as part of the audit. The team
also assisted in testing the accuracy of the information produced by the
Bank's IT systems.
Obtained a comprehensive understanding of IT applications
implemented at the Bank. It was followed by process understanding,
mapping of applications to the same and understanding financial risks
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls are required to
ensure that such IT systems are able to process the data, as required,
completely, accurately and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
We have identified 'IT systems and controls' as key audit matter because
of the high level automation, significant number of systems being used
by the management and the complexity of the IT architecture and its
impact on the financial reporting system.
posed by people-process and technology.
Key IT audit procedures includes testing design and operating
effectiveness of key controls operating over user access management
(which includes user access provisioning, de-provisioning, access
review, password configuration review, segregation of duties and
privilege access), change management (which include change release
in production environment are compliant to the defined procedures
and segregation of environment is ensured), program development
(which include review of data migration activity), computer operations
(which includes testing of key controls pertaining to, backup, Batch
processing (including interface testing), incident management and data
centre security), System interface controls. This included testing that
requests for access to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed
and authorized.
In addition to the above, the design and operating effectiveness of
certain automated controls, that were considered as key internal system
controls over financial reporting were tested. Using various techniques
such as inquiry, review of documentation / record / reports, observation
and re-performance. We also tested few controls using negative testing
technique. We had taken adequate samples of instances for our test.
Tested compensating controls and performed alternate procedures,
where necessary. In addition, understood where relevant, changes
made to the IT landscape during the audit period.
Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements and Auditor's Report Thereon
The Bank's Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the Basel
III - Pillar 3 disclosures and graphical representation of financial highlights but does not include the financial statements and our
auditor's reports thereon, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor's report, and the Annual Report, which is expected to
be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge obtained
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that
we obtained prior to the date of this auditor's report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
the matter to Those Charged with Governance.
214