Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
c) Provision pertaining to fraud accounts reported during the year
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
No. of frauds reported
6,543
5,232
Amount involved in fraud (₹ crore)
505.86
1,640.80
Amount involved in fraud net of recoveries / write-offs as at the end of the year (₹ crore)
231.74
1,321.08
Provisions held as at the end of the year (₹ crore)
231.74
1,321.08
Amount of unamortised provision debited from "other reserves" as at the end of the
year (₹ crore)
-
-
Above table represents all frauds reported during the year.
The information on frauds for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 includes certain large value credits which were already reckoned
as NPAs in the prior years and these were fully provided for.
d) Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. Contingent liability*
No.
Brief description
1
Claims against the Group not
acknowledged as debts - taxation
The Group is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are pending.
The Group expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on decisions on
similar issues in the previous years by the appellate authorities, based on the facts of
the case and taxation laws.
2 Claims against the Group not
acknowledged as debts - others
The Group is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business.
The Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material
adverse effect on the Group's financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows.
3 Partly paid investments
This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
4
Liability on account of forward
exchange and derivative contracts
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate
agreements, currency swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants on
its own account and for customers. Forward exchange contracts are commitments
to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate. Currency swaps
are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest / principal in one currency
against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are commitments
to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for
comparison with instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily
indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the
instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the Bank's exposure to credit or price risks.
The derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or unfavorable (liabilities) as a
result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
5 Guarantees given on behalf
of constituents, acceptances,
endorsements and other obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit and
guarantees on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit
enhance the credit standing of the Bank's customers. Guarantees generally represent
irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the customer
failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6 Other items for which the Group is
contingently liable
These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills
rediscounted by the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments; e)
Investment purchases pending settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI under the
Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF).
* Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
340