Directors' Report
Dear Stakeholders,
Your Directors take great pleasure in presenting the 28th
Annual Report on the business and financial operations of your
Bank, together with the audited accounts for the year ended
March 31, 2022.
Like last year, let me start by wishing all of you health and
happiness on behalf of the HDFC Bank family. The entire
world has learnt the importance of this all over again during
the pandemic.
The good news is that the pandemic more or less appears to be
behind us, thanks to the pick-up in the vaccination program rolled
out by the Union Government and the virus mutants being less
and less dangerous. As the shadow over the health of individuals
lifts, the health of the economy has been improving too.
India's GDP grew by 8.7 per cent in FY 2021-22 compared to
a contraction of 6.6 per cent in FY 2020-21 as per the Central
Statistical Organisation (CSO), surpassing pre-pandemic
levels of output. The biggest drivers of growth were pick up
in investment and exports. Capital expenditure was led by the
Union Government, with the private sector playing a supporting
role. The Government and the RBI also announced a host of
measures to contain the impact of the second wave on domestic
economic activity. This was followed by stepping up allocation
on capital expenditure in the Union Budget for FY 2022-23 by
24.5 per cent to ₹ 7.5 lakh crore.
The economy now faces headwinds from rising inflationary
pressures brought about by supply chain disruptions and
geopolitical tensions, particularly the Ukraine crisis. This can
affect private consumption, lead to reduced profit margins due
to rising input costs and slowdown the recovery in the private
sector capital expenditure cycle.
In an effort to contain inflation, the RBI on May 4, 2022 in an off
cycle announcement, hiked the policy rate by 40 basis points
to 4.4 per cent and increased the Cash Reserve Ratio by 50
basis points to 4.5 per cent. It further hiked the Repo Rate by
another 50 points to 4.90 per cent in the June 8, 2022 Monetary
Policy announcement.
To sum up, despite the current headwinds, India is expected
to be the fastest growing economy in the world in FY 2022-
23, clocking a 7.3 per cent growth rate, and is well poised to
withstand any external volatility and shocks.
(For more details, please refer to the Macroeconomic and
Industry section on page no. 135)
In spite of the challenges, your Bank continued on its growth
path by conducting its business responsibly and reinforcing its
commitment to the environment and community at large.
Financial Parameters
Your Bank recorded an improvement in a majority of its key
financial parameters, largely due to its prudent credit evaluation
of targeted customers and diversified loan book across
customer segments, products, and sectors. Managing risk-
return decisions with discipline was an important element in
the Bank's performance. Net Profit at ₹ 36,961.3 crore went up
by 18.8 per cent. Net Interest Income at ₹ 72,009.6 crore rose
11.0 per cent. Net Interest Margin stood at 4.0 per cent. Gross
Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) at 1.17 per cent was among the
lowest in the industry.
GNPA
1.17 per cent
Among the lowest in the industry
Parivartan
Your Bank continued to transform lives through its umbrella CSR
brand, Parivartan, which denotes change.
The Bank believes that businesses can only prosper if the
communities in which they operate prosper as well. This belief
has inspired its social initiatives, which have potentially made a
difference to the lives of over 9.6 crore people, predominantly
in rural India. Driving this change is the Sustainable Livelihood
Initiative (SLI) team, which works on improving livelihood
132