Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
incurred on the asset before it is ready to use. Subsequent
expenditure incurred on assets put to use is capitalised only
when it increases the future benefit / functioning capability
from / of such assets.
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of
the fixed asset on a straight-line basis. The management
believes that the useful life of assets assessed by the
Bank, pursuant to Part C of Schedule II to the Companies
Act, 2013, taking into account changes in environment,
changes in technology, the utility and efficacy of the asset
in use, fairly reflects its estimate of useful lives of the fixed
assets. The estimated useful lives of key fixed assets are
given below:
Asset
Estimated useful
life as assessed by
the Bank
Estimated useful
life specified under
Schedule II of the
Companies Act,
2013
Owned Premises
61 years
60 years
Automated Teller
Machines (ATMs)
10 years
15 years
Electrical equipments
and installations
6 to 10 years
10 years
Office equipments
3 to 6 years
5 years
Computers
3 years
3 years
Modems, routers,
switches, servers,
network and related
IT equipments
3 to 6 years
6 years
Motor cars
4 years
8 years
Furniture and fittings
16 years
10 years
· Improvements to lease hold premises are amortised
over the remaining primary period of lease.
· Software and system development expenditure is
depreciated over a period of 5 years.
· Point of sales terminals are depreciated over a period
of 4 years.
· For assets purchased and sold during the year,
depreciation is provided on pro-rata basis.
. Whenever there is a revision of the estimated useful
life of an asset, the unamortised depreciable amount
is charged over the revised remaining useful life of the
said asset.
· Profit on sale of immovable property net of taxes and
transfer to statutory reserve, are transferred to capital
reserve account.
· Assets (other than POS terminals) costing less than
₹ 5,000 individually, are fully depreciated in the year
of purchase.
5
Impairment of assets
The Bank assesses at each Balance Sheet date whether
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent the
carrying amount of assets exceeds their estimated
recoverable amount.
6
Translation of foreign currency items
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic
operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing
on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure
items of integral foreign operations (representative offices)
are translated at the weekly average closing rates and
of non-integral foreign operations (foreign branches and
offshore banking units) at the monthly average closing rates.
Foreign currency monetary items of domestic and integral
foreign operations are translated at the closing exchange
rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers' Association
of India (FEDAI) as at the Balance Sheet date and the
resulting net revaluation profit or loss arising due to a net
open position in any foreign currency is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account.
Both monetary and non-monetary foreign currency
assets and liabilities of non-integral foreign operations
are translated at closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI
at the Balance Sheet date and the resulting profit / loss
arising from exchange differences are accumulated in the
Foreign Currency Translation Account until disposal of the
non-integral foreign operations in accordance with AS - 11,
The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and the
extant RBI guidelines.
Foreign currency denominated contingent liabilities on
account of foreign exchange and derivative contracts,
guarantees, letters of credit, acceptances and
endorsements are reported at closing rates of exchange
notified by FEDAI as at the Balance Sheet date.
7
Foreign exchange and derivative contracts
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts, both
deliverable and non-deliverable, outstanding as at the
Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued at
the closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified
by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim
maturities. The USD-INR exchange rate for valuation of
contracts having longer maturities i.e. greater than one year,
is derived using the USD-INR spot rate as well as relevant
INR yield curve and USD yield curve. For other currency
pairs, the forward points (for rates / tenors not published
by FEDAI) are obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for
valuation of the forex deals. Valuation is considered on
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 233