Risk Management
Credit Risk
The risk which arises from default by borrowers in their
terms of contract with the Bank, especially failure to make
payments or repayments.
Mitigation
An independent Credit Group headed by Chief Credit
officer oversees the underwriting functions and approvals
across retail and wholesale credit functions. It ensures that
the credit underwriting and portfolio management policies
are aligned with the Board approved credit appetite. There
are robust policies and processes for managing credit risk
in both retail and wholesale businesses, mainly through
our target defined market, credit approval process, post-
disbursement monitoring and remedial management
procedures.
Strategies
Maintaining healthy asset quality with optimal risk-reward
considerations.
Capitals Impacted
Market Risk
The risk of potential loss on account of adverse changes
in market variables which affect the value of financial
instruments held by the Bank.
These instruments are primarily held for trading or for
management of statutory reserves.
Examples of such market instruments are debt securities,
equities, foreign exchange and derivative instruments.
Mitigation
A well-defined Board approved Market Risk Policy,
Investment Policy, Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and
Derivatives Policy along with robust control activities
caps the risk at trading desk level and also at securities
level, through trading risk limits in line with the Bank's risk
appetite.
The market risk is also evaluated at portfolio level and
controls are implemented to mitigate the risk.
Strategies
Optimising profitability of mark-to-market products within the
constraints of liquidity and market risk appetite of the Bank.
Capitals Impacted
dil
Compliance Risk
The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, as a result of
failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and
standards.
Mitigation
Comprehensive Board-approved Compliance policy in
place which is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Compliance function tracks and reviews
compliance with regulatory guidelines.
Enhancing the compliance culture within the
organisation through an intricate and comprehensive
internal control framework along with other measures.
Strategies
Strengthening our Compliance checks and balances
and ensuring businesses work within the contours of
regulation.
Capitals Impacted
dil
48