Message from the MD & CEO
Merger - The Power of One
Now, let me come to the proposed merger with HDFC Ltd.
We look forward to the phenomenal set of talent, deep
product knowledge and expertise, the processes, and
systems that HDFC Ltd will add to the Bank's existing ones.
On April 4, 2022, the two institutions had announced a
transformational merger that is subject to various regulatory
approvals and will take effect in about 15 to 18 months. The
questions that have been asked are -
why? and why now?
Why the Merger?
Quite simply, this is an opportunity we cannot afford to
miss. Home loans are an emotional product and bring with
them a host of accelerated benefits for the Bank. Today
the environment for buying a home has changed. RERA
has ensured greater transparency in the process. Price
corrections in the property market have seen inventories
come down. Also, rising incomes mean that home loan EMIs
have come down as a percentage of a person's income.
Thanks to the penetration of telecom, internet and television
services, the desire to own better homes has increased
across the country. All this means that housing is going to
be a huge growth opportunity and one of the key drivers of
India's GDP over the next decade.
Further, only 2% of our customers source their home loans
through us, while 5% do it from other institutions. The
latter is equivalent to the size of our retail book. Home loan
customers typically keep deposits that are 5 to 7 times that
of other retail customers. And about 70% of HDFC Ltd.'s
customers do not bank with us. All these give us an idea
about the size of the opportunity. The long tenor nature of
home loans provides resiliency to the balance sheet. The
Bank is one of the largest consumer durable financiers in
the country. We can easily bundle this with a home loan, as
with every home loan, there is a propensity of a customer to
take new consumer durables. It is this kind of bundling that
will increase margins. With the advantage of a lower cost of
funds and the phenomenal distribution muscle that we have
built, it is imperative that we seize this opportunity.
Why now?
There have been other favourable factors too. In the last few
years, the regulatory arbitrage between banks and NBFCs
has come down substantially. Today reserve requirements
have come down to about 22% from 26%. Both institutions
are well capitalised and have surplus liquidity and a strong
portfolio of investments in Government securities. The
increase in priority sector lending that we need to do, due
to the merger, is possible now with our own increased focus
on MSMEs, the affordable housing loans that we can do and
the well-developed PSL certificate market. All this means
that on the day of the merger there may not be any need
to raise further funds to meet reserve requirements. The
addition of the home mortgages portfolio on our Balance
Sheet makes it more diversified and robust.
The enhanced capital position of the Bank post the merger
also means that we can take bigger exposures in leading
corporates and power the country's infrastructure build out.
The key focus area for the Bank to absorb this growth
opportunity is to secure enhanced liabilities to fund future
growth. The branch network has been a key deposit
mobilisation engine during its 27 years of growth, leading
in customer acquisition, customer retention and advertising
the solidity of the Bank and hence garnering liabilities by
becoming the primary banking partner for our customers.
India continues to be under-penetrated and underserved
from a banking perspective. The density of branches for
the population of this country is way below that of OECD
countries. This is where our branch banking strategy comes
in. Today we have 6,000+ branches across India, and we
plan to nearly double our network in the next three to five
years by opening 1,500 to 2,000 branches every year.
The branch will be digital from a customer on-boarding
and transaction/servicing perspective. It will provide the
emotional connect and relationship management necessary
for offering financial solutions to our customers. These
branches will be small in size and will be phygital relationship
centres. This will enable us to go after the catchment more
aggressively and build the required liability franchise that
we are known for, and we are confident that we would
execute well.
14