Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
The audited financial statements of the subsidiary
companies, entity controlled by the Bank have been drawn
up to the same reporting date as that of the Bank, i.e.
March 31, 2022.
D
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1
Investments
HDFC Bank Limited
Classification:
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are
classified on the date of purchase into "Held for Trading"
('HFT'), "Available for Sale" ('AFS') and "Held to Maturity"
('HTM') categories (hereinafter called "categories").
Subsequent shifting amongst the categories is done
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Under each of
these categories, investments are further classified under
six groups (hereinafter called "groups") - Government
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures
and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
and Other Investments.
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted
on settlement date except in the case of equity shares
which are accounted on trade date.
Basis of classification:
Investments that are held for resale within 90 days from
the date of purchase are classified under HFT category.
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are
classified under HTM category. Investments in the equity
of subsidiaries / joint ventures are categorised as HTM.
Investments which are not classified in either of the above
categories are classified under AFS category.
Acquisition cost:
Brokerage, commission, etc. and broken period interest
on debt instruments are recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account and are not included in the cost of acquisition.
Disposal of investments:
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid
three categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account. Cost of investments is based on the weighted
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment
under HTM category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory
reserve is appropriated from the Profit and Loss Account
to "Capital Reserve".
Short sale:
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central
Government dated securities. The short position is
categorised under HFT category and netted off from
investments. The short position is marked to market and
loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss Account
while gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on short sale is
recognised on settlement date.
Valuation:
Investments classified under AFS and HFT categories
are marked to market individually and depreciation
/ appreciation is aggregated for each group and net
depreciation in each group is provided and net appreciation
is ignored.
Traded investments are valued based on the trades /
quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices
published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd.
(FBIL) with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
Association (FIMMDA) as the calculating agent. Investments
denominated in foreign currencies are valued based on the
prices provided by market information providers such as
Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
The market value of unquoted government of India securities,
state government securities and special bonds such as oil
bonds, fertilizer bonds etc. issued by the government of
India, is computed as per the prices published by FBIL with
FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities (viz.
other approved securities and bonds and debentures), and
preference shares, is done with appropriate mark-up, i.e.
applicable FIMMDA published credit spread over the Yield
to Maturity (YTM) rates for government of India securities as
published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up
value, if the latest Balance Sheet is available or at ₹ 1 for
each company.
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest net asset value
declared by the respective schemes of the mutual fund.
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits
being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
Investments in Security receipts (SR) and unquoted
units of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are valued
as per the net asset value provided by the issuing Asset
Reconstruction Company and InvIT trust respectively.
Investments in unquoted Venture Capital Fund (VCF) are
categorised, at the discretion of the Bank, under HTM
category for an initial period of three years and valued at
cost during this period. Such investments are transferred
to the AFS category after the said period of three years.
Investments in AFS category are valued at NAV shown by
320