Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
thereby allegedly causing damage to the Bank's investors. On
April 9, 2021, the Bank, Mr. Puri, and Mr. Jagdishan served their
motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on July 23, 2021,
they served their reply brief in support of the motion and filed
all of the motion papers. The Court held oral argument on the
motion to dismiss on January 14, 2022, and the motion remains
pending before the Court. The Bank believes that the asserted
claims are baseless and without merit and intends to vigorously
defend against the allegations.
Material Developments: Proposed Scheme of
Amalgamation
The Board of Directors of HDFC Bank Limited ('HDFC Bank') at
its meeting held on April 4, 2022, approved a composite scheme
of amalgamation ('Scheme') for the amalgamation of: (i) HDFC
Investments Limited and HDFC Holdings Limited, wholly-owned
subsidiaries of the Housing Development Finance Corporation
Limited ('HDFC Limited'), with and into HDFC Limited and (ii)
HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank and matters related
thereto.
With effect from the appointed date and upon the amalgamation
of HDFC Limited with and into HDFC Bank becoming effective,
HDFC Limited along with all its assets, liabilities, contracts,
employees, licenses, records and approvals being their
respective integral parts shall stand transferred to and vest in
or shall be deemed to have been transferred to and vested in
HDFC Bank, as a going concern.
Upon the Scheme becoming effective and in consideration of the
proposed amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and into HDFC
Bank, HDFC Limited will stand dissolved without being wound
up and the shareholders of HDFC Limited as on the record
date will receive 42 shares of HDFC Bank (each of face value of
₹ 1), for 25 shares held in HDFC Limited (each of face value of
₹ 2). This share exchange ratio has been arrived at based on a
joint valuation report submitted by two Registered Valuers and
independent Chartered Accountancy firms appointed by HDFC
Bank and HDFC Limited, which was supported by a Fairness
Opinion provided by two SEBI registered merchant bankers.
During the period between the approval of the Scheme by the
respective boards of HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited and up to
the effectiveness of the Scheme, the business of HDFC Bank
and HDFC Limited shall be carried out with reasonable diligence
and business prudence in the ordinary course, consistent with
past practice, in accordance with the applicable laws and as
mutually agreed.
The Board of Directors of HDFC Bank and HDFC Limited
have opined that the proposed amalgamation would be in the
best interest of the respective companies, their shareholders,
employees, creditors and other stakeholders, since the proposed
amalgamation will yield advantages as set out, inter alia, below:
(a) the amalgamation, through the Scheme, shall enable HDFC
Bank to build its housing loan portfolio and enhance its
existing customer base;
(b)
The amalgamation is based on leveraging the significant
complementarities that exist amongst the parties to the
Scheme. It would create meaningful value for various
stakeholders including respective shareholders, customers,
employees, as the combined business would benefit
from increased scale, comprehensive product offering,
balance sheet resiliency and the ability to drive synergies
across revenue opportunities, operating efficiencies and
underwriting efficiencies, amongst others;
(c)
HDFC Bank is a private sector bank and has a large base of
over 6.8 Crore customers. The Bank platform will provide a
well-diversified low cost funding base for growing the long
tenor loan book acquired by the HDFC Bank pursuant to
the amalgamation;
(d)
HDFC Bank is a banking company with a large distribution
network that offers product offerings in the retail and
wholesale segments. HDFC Limited is a premier housing
finance company in India and provides housing loans to
individuals as well as loans to corporates, undertakes lease
rental discounting and construction finance apart from
being a financial conglomerate. A combination of HDFC
Limited and HDFC Bank is entirely complementary to, and
enhances the value proposition of, HDFC Bank;
(e)
HDFC Bank would benefit from a larger balance sheet and
networth which would allow underwriting of larger ticket
loans and also enable a greater flow of credit into the
Indian economy;
HDFC Limited has invested capital and developed skills
and has set up approximately 464 (Four Hundred and Sixty
Four) offices across the country. These offices can be used
to sell the entire product suite of both HDFC Bank and
HDFC Limited;
(f)
The loan book of HDFC Limited is diversified having
cumulatively financed over 9 million dwelling units. With
HDFC Limited's leadership in the home loan arena,
developed over the past 45 years, HDFC Bank would be
able to provide to customers flexible mortgage offerings in
a cost-effective and efficient manner;
(g)
HDFC Bank has access to funds at lower costs due to
its high level of current and savings accounts deposits
(CASA). With the amalgamation of HDFC Limited with and
into HDFC Bank, HDFC Bank will be able to offer more
competitive housing products;
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 15