Directors' Report
with customers by empowering them. As part of these efforts,
farmer centres or Kisan Dhan Vikas Kendras have been rolled
out in Punjab, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.
At these centres, farmers access information on soil health,
mandi prices, and various Government initiatives and also receive
expert advice. Moreover, these services are also available on
the Bank's website in vernacular languages. Kisan Dhan Vikas
e-Kendra is one of its kind in the Banking Industry to reach out
to farmers as a one-stop solution for all their requirements viz.
loan eligibility, online application facility, training though kiosks,
call an expert facility, soil testing and much more. Your Bank
also provides advisory on weather, cropping and harvesting
through SMS.
In line with this, the Bank also launched the e-KISAN Dhan
app, a unique digital app for the rural/farming community.
This is an exclusive mobile app for all rural banking and agriculture
information needs from HDFC Bank.
This app aggregates crucial information required by the farmers.
There have been about 100,000 downloads of the app.
Multiple needs of the farmers can be serviced such as purchase
of agri inputs, agro products, information on best practices,
weather alerts, mandi rates, expert advice, agri news, information
on Government schemes like debt waiver, interest subvention,
crop insurance and livestock centre amongst others.
Digital Interventions
Digitising Milk Procurement: This initiative brings
transparency in the milk procurement and payment process,
which benefits both farmers and dairy societies. Multi-function
Terminals (MFTs), popularly known as Milk-to- Money ATMs, are
deployed in dairy societies. The MFTs link the milk procurement
system of the dairy society to the farmer's account to enable
faster payments. MFTs have cash dispensers that function as
standard ATMs. Payments are credited without the hassles of
cash distribution. Further, this process creates a credit history
which can then be used for accessing bank credit. Apart from
dairy and cattle loans, customers gain access to all the Bank's
products including digital offerings such as 10 Second Personal
Loans, Kisan Credit Card, Bill Pay, and Missed Call Mobile
Recharge. So far, your Bank has digitised payments at over
1,700 milk cooperatives across 21 states, benefiting more than
5.2 lakh dairy farmers. The Dairy business witnessed 73% per
cent year-on-year growth in disbursements and 61% in the book.
Substituting Moneylenders:
The bank is making inroads into a market dominated by
the unorganised sector, moneylenders and pawn brokers.
The bank is keen on making the gold loan facility available across
the length and breadth of the country. In FY 2021-22 your bank
made gold loans available in 351 more branches taking the
total number of branches where it can be availed of to 1,362.
The bank has ended the year with a porfolio of ₹ 8,367 crore.
The bank is implementing its blueprint for gold loans being made
available in every branch of the country. The Bank is also
planning strategically to partner with channels who have the
solutions available to increase the reach.
Social initiatives in Farm Sector
Farm yield and income are subject to the vagaries of the
weather. In addition, factors like soil health, input quality (seeds
and fertilizers), water availability, and Government policy have
significant impact, along with price realisations and storage
facilities. Your Bank has launched a variety of initiatives to ease
the stress on farm income and rural households.
Over the last few years, several parts of the country have
been severely impacted by natural calamities such as drought,
unseasonal rains, hailstorms, floods and the pandemic. Within
regulatory guidelines, your Bank has been providing relief to the
impacted farmers. It also has put in place systems designed to
enable direct benefit transfers in a time-bound manner.
Lending to the agriculture sector, including to small and marginal
farmers, is a regulatory mandate as part of priority sector lending
requirements. The Bank has leveraged its extensive knowledge
of rural customers to create as well as deliver products and
services at affordable price points and with quick turnaround
time. This has enabled the Bank to establish a strong footprint
in the rural geographies, which it has now leveraged to increase
its penetration of liability products. Further, your Bank is building
a segment-specific approach like funding to horticulture clusters,
supply chain finance, agri business, MSMEs and dairy farmers.
It also continues to engage closely with farmers to mitigate risks
and protect portfolio quality.
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME)
The MSME sector serves as an important engine for economic
growth and is one of the largest employers in the economy. Your
Bank's assets in the MSME segment stood at ₹ 313,919.49 crore
as on March 31, 2022. Its Micro Enterprises assets alone stood
at ₹ 112,564.77 crore as on March 31, 2022.
The MSME sector was one of the sectors identified for special
support by the Government and the RBI during the pandemic
through various schemes like Interest Moratorium, ECLGS.
ECLGS extension, COVID support loans etc.
Your Bank has ensured support for its customers through
ECLGS and ECLGS extension schemes during the year and has
also supported the customers through ad hoc enhancements
as needed by them. Your Bank emerged as a star performer
under the ECLGS 1.0, 2.0, 3.0 and ECLGS extension schemes.
It disbursed loans amounting to ₹ 17,100.89 crore to over 0.78
142