Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee may take into consideration and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors
within control or whether it was on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance,
changes in legal / regulatory regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other
socio-economic conditions, etc.
While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback
arrangement based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or
proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank's provisioning for Non-
Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the
bank shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under 'Malus'
arrangement. Further, in such situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year)
shall be entertained. In case the bank's post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions
will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or
both provisioning and asset classification.
The NRC may decide to apply Malus on part, or all of the variable pay. The time horizon for the application of
Malus / Clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the
degree of accountability attributable to a Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (Job
Bands C1 and above) prior to applying the Malus or Clawback arrangement.
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
(vi) Approval Process:
The Variable Pay for Senior Management, Material Risk Takers other than Whole Time Directors, Risk
and control staff is approved by the NRC and the Board. For Whole Time Directors the variable pay is
approved by the NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
Employees other than Senior Management, Material Risk Takers, Whole Time Directors
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
(i) Annual Bonus Plan
The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the business unit,
performance of the individual employee, job band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these
key determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment, a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market
trends for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from compensation surveys may also be used in
finalising the payout.
Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the
quantum and the method of payout across functions. Typically higher levels of responsibility receive a higher
proportion of variable pay vis-à-vis fixed pay.
(ii) Performance-Linked Plans (PLPs)
PLPs are formulated for employees in sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
business / service targets but have limited impact on risk since credit decisions are exercised independent
of these functions. All PLP payouts are based on a balanced scorecard framework which factors not just
quantitative, but also qualitative measures, and are subject to achievement of individual targets enumerated in
the respective scorecards of the employees. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are on the PLPs are excluded from the
Annual Bonus Plan.
276