Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
External Consultants:
The Bank engaged with the following consultants during the year ended March 31, 2022:
1. AON Consulting Private Limited - in respect of the Bank's annual salary market benchmarking exercise.
2. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP - in respect of the Bank's benchmarking exercise pertaining to executive
compensation.
3. Mercer Consulting (India) Private Limited - in the area of job evaluation.
Scope of the Bank's Remuneration Policy:
The Remuneration Policy of the Bank includes within its scope all business lines and functions, and all permanent staff in
the Bank's domestic as well as international offices. The principles articulated in the compensation policy are applicable
uniformly across the Bank. However any statutory / regulatory provisions applicable in overseas locations take precedence
over the Remuneration Policy of the Bank.
All permanent employees of the Bank except those covered under the long term wage agreement are covered by the
said Remuneration Policy. The number of employees covered under the compensation policy was 1,41,349 as at March
31, 2022 (previous year: 1,19,858).
B. Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and
objectives of remuneration policy
I. Key Features and Objectives of Remuneration Policy
The Bank's Remuneration Policy (the 'Policy') is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics
and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate objective of the Policy is to provide a fair and transparent structure
that helps in acquiring and retaining the talent pool critical to build competitive advantage and brand equity. The
Policy has been designed basis the principles for sound compensation practices in accordance with regulatory
requirements and provides a framework to create, modify and maintain appropriate compensation programs and
processes with adequate supervision and control.
The Bank's performance management system provides a sound basis for assessing employee performance holistically.
The Bank's compensation framework is aligned with the performance management system and differentiates pay
appropriately amongst its employees based on degree of contribution, performance, skill, experience, grade and
availability of talent owing to competitive market forces. Further, the Bank also considers compliance to processes,
regulatory compliance and risk management as an integral part of its performance appraisal process. These factors
are given due weightage for the purposes of the final performance rating of employees for a given performance year.
The NRC considers the aforementioned principles enunciated in the Bank's compensation policy and ensures that:
(a) the compensation is adjusted for all types of prudent risk taking;
(b) compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes;
(c) compensation payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of risk; and
(d) the mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation are aligned with risk.
Review of Remuneration Policy of the Bank
The Remuneration Policy of the Bank was reviewed by the NRC during the year ended March 31, 2021 and changes
were made to the policy in accordance with the revised guidelines on compensation of Whole Time Directors /
Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff issued on dated November 4, 2019. These
guidelines are applicable for the performance year commencing on April 1, 2020 and shall govern all remuneration
payouts subsequent to March 31, 2021.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 27
273