Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
only if it increases the future benefits from the existing asset
beyond its previously assessed standard of performance.
Items of fixed assets that have been retired from active
use and are held for disposal are stated at the lower of
their net book value and net realisable value and are shown
separately in the financial statements.
Gains or losses arising from disposal or retirement of tangible
fixed assets are measured as the difference between the
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the
asset and are recognised net, within "Other Income" or
"Other Expenses", as the case maybe, in the Profit and
Loss Account in the year of disposal or retirement.
Capital work-in-progress are fixed assets which are not yet
ready for their intended use. Such assets are carried at cost
comprising direct cost and related incidental expenses.
Depreciation is provided on a pro-rata basis to fully
depreciate the assets using the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the assets.
For the following categories of assets, depreciation on
tangible fixed assets has been provided on the straight-
line method as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule II
to the Companies Act, 2013:
Asset
Estimated useful life
Computer hardware
3 years
Office equipments
5 years
Furniture and fixtures
10 years
Leasehold improvements Over the remaining period of the lease
or estimated life, whichever is shorter
Electricals
10 years
Office premises
60 years
For the following categories of assets, the Company has
assessed useful life based on technical advice, taking
into account the nature of the asset, the estimates usage
of asset, the operating condition of asset, anticipated
technological changes and utility in the business, as below:
Asset
Estimated useful life
Vehicles
4 years
Network & servers
4 years
· All tangible and intangible assets costing less than
₹ 5,000 individually are fully depreciated in the year
of purchase.
· Useful lives are reviewed at each financial year end and
adjusted if required.
· Intangible assets are stated at acquisition cost,
net of accumulated amortisation and accumulated
impairment losses, if any.
· Cost of an intangible asset includes purchase price,
non-refundable taxes and duties and any other directly
attributable expenditure on making the asset ready
for its intended use and net of any trade discounts
and rebates. Subsequent expenditure on an intangible
asset is charged to the Profit and Loss Account as an
expense unless it is probable that such expenditure will
enable the intangible asset increase the future benefits
from the existing asset beyond its previously assessed
standard of performance and such expenditure can
be measured and attributed to the intangible asset
reliably, in which case, such expenditure is capitalised.
· Expenditure on software development eligible for
capitalisation are carried as intangible assets under
development where such assets are not yet ready for
their intended use.
· Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives. The amortisation
period and the amortisation method are reviewed
at least at each reporting date. If the expected
useful life of the asset is significantly different from
previous estimates, the amortisation period is
changed accordingly.
· Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal
of an intangible asset are determined as the difference
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying
amount of the asset and recognised as income or
expense in the Profit and Loss Account in the year
of disposal.
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets used for
amortisation are:
Asset
Estimated useful life
Computer software licenses
5 years
Electronic trading platform (Website)
5 years
Bombay Stock Exchange card
10 years
HDB Financial Services Limited
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment, if any. The cost of fixed
assets comprise purchase price and any attributable cost
of bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended
use. Subsequent expenditure incurred on assets put to
use is capitalised only when it increases the future benefit
/ functioning capability from / of such assets.
324