Report on Corporate Governance
of the Bank for a period of three (3) consecutive years with effect
from May 5, 2021. The said appointments were approved by the
shareholders of the Bank at the 27th Annual General Meeting
held on July 17, 2021.
Subsequently, Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent
Director of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with
effect from November 26, 2021 and the said appointment was
approved by the shareholders of the Bank through Postal Ballot
on March 27, 2022.
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-
Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the Bank with effect
from February 18, 2022.
Further, Mrs. Renu Karnad is proposed to be re-appointed as
Non-Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development
Finance Corporation Limited, promoter of the Bank) on the
Board of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with
effect from September 3, 2022, subject to the approval of the
shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
Familiarization of Independent Directors
The details of familiarization programmes imparted to
Independent Directors are available on the website of the Bank
at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-
governance/familiarization-of-independent-directors
Strictures and Penalties for last three financial
years:
During the last three financial years, the Reserve Bank of India
and other regulatory / statutory authorities have imposed the
following penalties / strictures / prohibitions / restrictions on
the Bank:
FY 2021-22
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by an order dated May 27, 2021,
levied a penalty of ₹10 crores (Rupees ten crores only) for
marketing and sale of third-party non-financial products to
the Bank's auto loan customers, arising from a whistle blower
complaint, which revealed, inter alia, contravention of Section
6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The
Bank has discontinued the sale of said third-party non-financial
product since October 2019. The penalty was paid by the Bank.
FY 2020-21
A. Penalties:
· Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has vide its letter dated
December 04, 2020 imposed a monetary penalty
of ₹10 lacs on the Bank for bouncing of SGL, which
lead to shortage of balance in certain securities in the
Bank's CSGL account on November 19, 2020. The
Bank has since enhanced its review mechanism so
as to ensure that such incidents do not recur.
· SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying
a penalty of ₹1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of
invocation of securities pledged by BMA Wealth
Creators (BRH Wealth Kreators) for availing credit
facilities. SEBI has also directed the Bank to transfer
sale proceeds of ₹ 158.68 crores on invocation of
securities, along with interest to escrow account with
a nationalised bank by marking lien in favour of SEBI.
The Bank had challenged SEBI's order before SAT
and SAT, vide its interim order, have stayed operation
of SEBI's order. SAT, vide its final order dated February
18, 2022, allowed the Bank's appeal and quashed
SEBI's Order.
B. Restrictions imposed:
RBI has issued an Order dated December 02, 2020
("Order") to HDFC Bank Limited (the "Bank") with regard
to certain incidents of outages in the internet banking/
mobile banking/ payment utilities of the Bank over the
past 2 years, including the outages in the Bank's internet
banking and payment system on November 21, 2020
due to a power failure in the primary data centre. RBI,
vide above order, advised the Bank (a) to stop all digital
business generating activities planned under its 'Digital
2.0' and proposed Business generating applications digital
also imposed restrictions and (b) to stop sourcing of new
credit card customers. The Bank has initiated remedial
activities including fixing of staff accountability and the
same were communicated to the RBI. Basis the Bank's
submission, RBI vide its letter dated August 17, 2021, has
relaxed the restriction placed on sourcing of new credit
cards customers and further vide its letter dated March 11,
2022 has lifted the restrictions on the business generating
activities planned under the Bank's Digital 2.0 program.
FY 2019-20
RBI has, vide its order dated June 13, 2019, imposed a monetary
penalty of ₹ 10 million on the Bank for non-compliance with
directions issued by RBI on Know Your Customer (KYC)/ Anti-
Money Laundering (AML) Norms and on reporting of frauds. The
penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers vested in RBI
under the provisions of Section 47A(1)(c) read with Section 46(4)(i)
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. In the instant case, the Bank
had made a reference to the Custom Authorities for verification of
Bill of Entry submitted by certain importers. Examination of these
customers revealed violations of RBI directions on 'KYC/AML
norms' and on reporting of frauds. The penalty was paid by the
Bank. The Bank has taken necessary measures to strengthen its
internal control mechanisms so as to ensure that such incidents
do not recur.
384