Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Environment, Social and Governance Strategy
The last two years has reminded all of us that our destinies
are interconnected. Our ESG strategy is based on this
interconnectedness, especially in the Environment and
Social spheres. Climate change can disrupt both lives and
livelihoods. Also, none of us should forget that the world
belongs to the coming generations as much as to us.
We have already committed to becoming carbon neutral
by FY32. ESG is being made an integral part of our credit
assessment process. While assessment of environment and
social factors has been a part of credit diligence, particularly
in project financing above a certain threshold, we have
recently introduced a comprehensive ESG assessment
framework in corporate lending and with a wider target
coverage. The objective at this stage is to create more
awareness among our corporate borrowers, assess their
position and understand their initiatives on ESG. Over the
next 2 to 3 years, we would be looking to make it one of the
key criteria in credit decisioning.
Our commitment to social good remains unwavering.
Through our CSR initiatives under Parivartan we have
already potentially impacted 9.6 Crore+ lives. That is an
addition of about 1 Crore lives since last year. We are driving
inclusivity and diversity within our organisation, with a
special focus on further enhancing gender diversity.
We believe that good corporate governance is a product of
culture and conscience and for us, profitability and growth
cannot come at the cost of these. Our focus on compliance
and assurance functions is unwavering and every aspect of
compliance is adhered to with all sincerity, completeness
and within requisite timelines. We ensure that every
commitment given to our regulators is done on time, in its
full form and substance.
Customers are the very reason for our existence and are at
the heart of everything we do. To reiterate what I said last
year, all individuals must ask themselves - am I doing the
right thing for the customer? Am I doing the right thing for
the organisation? Does my conscience permit this? As a
Bank we have always taken pride in our integrity. I had also
said last year that at an organisational level there is a greater
focus on the role of Credit, Risk, Compliance, Audit and
other enabling functions, and that focus continues.
Compassion
I would end by thanking my colleagues, who have given
their utmost to the Bank in two of the most trying years
in human history, and all our stakeholders who have kept
their faith in us. Yes, business and professional goals are
essential. However, it is even more essential to not lose the
human touch at the workplace and in our personal lives.
Compassion, care and understanding enrich both the giver
and the receiver. Thank you all once again.
Conclusion
HDFC Bank already had a huge opportunity with the
under-penetration of banking services in the country. The
proposed merger adds an entirely different dimension to
the future. We believe that the runway is huge, and we
can potentially add an HDFC Bank every five years. We
are excited about the future and are confident that we will
continue to have all our stakeholders' support and trust, as
we embark on this exciting new journey.
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer,
HDFC Bank Limited
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
15