Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
Instrument
Rating
Rating Agency
Comments
Infrastructure Bonds
CARE AAA
CARE Ratings
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA
CRISIL
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Additional Tier I Bonds (Under
Basel III)
CARE AA+
CARE Ratings
Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry very low credit risk.
CRISIL AA+
CRISIL
Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry very low credit risk.
IND AA+
India Ratings
Instruments with this rating are considered to have high degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry very low credit risk.
Tier II Bonds
(Under Basel III)
CARE AAA
CARE Ratings
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
CRISIL AAA
CRISIL
Instruments with this rating are considered to have the highest degree
of safety regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. Such
instruments carry the lowest credit risk.
Issuance of Equity Shares and Employee Stock
Option Scheme (ESOP)
As on March 31, 2022, the issued, subscribed and paid up
capital of your Bank stood at ₹ 5,545,540,976/- comprising
5,545,540,976 equity shares of ₹ 1/- each. Further, 32,764,494
equity shares of face value of ₹ 1/- each were issued by your Bank
pursuant to the exercise of Employee Stock Options (ESOPs).
(For information pertaining to ESOPs, please refer Annexure 1
of the Directors' Report).
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank's total CAR, calculated as
per Basel III Regulations, stood at 18.9 per cent, well above the
regulatory minimum requirement of 11.70 per cent, including a
Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.50 per cent and an additional
requirement of 0.20 per cent on account of the Bank being
identified as a Domestic Sytemically Important Bank. Tier I
Capital was at 17.9 per cent as of March 31, 2022.
TOTAL CAR
18.9 per cent
well above regulatory minimum requirement of 11.70 per
cent
Management Discussion and Analysis
Macroeconomic and Industry Developments
The Indian economy expanded in FY 2021-22, surpassing
pre-pandemic levels of output. As per the Central Statistical
Organisation, GDP grew by 8.7 per cent compared with a
contraction of 6.6 per cent in FY 2020-21. Growth was supported
by reopening of the economy and a pick-up in the vaccination
rate. Private consumption recovery picked up pace (registered
a growth of 7.9 per cent in FY 2021-22) and rose above pre-
pandemic levels. The biggest support came from a pick-up
in investment (supported by Government capital expenditure
and some revival in private capital expenditure) and strong
export growth.
In addition, both the Central Government and the RBI announced
a host of measures to contain the impact of the second wave
on domestic economic activity. The Government focused on
providing relief and credit flow to small business, health, tourism
sectors and other service sectors that were affected by the
pandemic. On the monetary policy side, the RBI kept its stance
accommodative and policy rates unchanged at 4.0 per cent
in FY 2021-22 and announced measures to provide liquidity
support. Some of the measures included extension of Targeted
Long Term Repo Operations (TLTRO), providing on-tap liquidity
window for contact intensive sectors, and extension of priority
sector lending.
Economic activity is poised to gain further momentum in FY 2022-
23 supported by a recovery in consumption, continued rise in
exports and a push through Government capital expenditure. In
the Union Budget for FY 2022-23, the Government increased
its allocation on capital expenditure by 24.5 per cent (from
FY 2021- 22 Revised Estimates) to ₹ 7.5 lakh crore. In addition,
it announced measures in the Union Budget for FY 2022-23
such as extension of credit guarantee scheme by a year and
an increase in guaranteed amount earmarked for the hospitality
sector. This was to address the sectors worst affected by
the pandemic.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
135