Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Schedule 17 - Significant accounting policies
appended to and forming part of the financial
statements for the year ended March 31, 2022
A BACKGROUND
HDFC Bank Limited ('HDFC Bank' or 'the Bank'),
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held banking
company engaged in providing a range of banking and
financial services including retail banking, wholesale
banking and treasury operations. The Bank is governed
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies
Act, 2013. The Bank has overseas branch operations in
Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai and Offshore Banking Unit at
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City,
India. The financial accounting systems of the Bank are
centralised and, therefore, accounting returns are not
required to be submitted by branches of the Bank.
B
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements have been prepared and presented
under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India
('GAAP'), statutory requirements prescribed under the Third
Schedule of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, circulars
and guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India ('RBI')
from time to time (RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards
('AS') specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act,
2013 read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules,
2014 and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules,
2021, in so far as they apply to banks.
Use of estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with GAAP requires the management to make estimates
and necessary assumptions in the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) as
of the date of the financial statements and the reported
income and expenses for the reporting year. Management
believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the
financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. Any revision in
the accounting estimates is recognised prospectively in the
current and future periods.
C
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1
Investments
Classification:
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, investments are
classified on the date of purchase into "Held for Trading"
('HFT'), "Available for Sale" ('AFS') and "Held to Maturity"
('HTM') categories (hereinafter called "categories").
Subsequent shifting amongst the categories is done
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Under each of
these categories, investments are further classified under
six groups (hereinafter called "groups") - Government
Securities, Other Approved Securities, Shares, Debentures
and Bonds, Investments in Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
and Other Investments.
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are accounted
on settlement date except in the case of equity shares
which are accounted on trade date.
Basis of classification:
Investments that are held for resale within 90 days from
the date of purchase are classified under HFT category.
Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are
classified under HTM category. Investments in the equity
of subsidiaries / joint ventures are categorised as HTM.
Investments which are not classified in either of the above
categories are classified under AFS category.
Acquisition cost:
Brokerage, commission, etc. and broken period interest
on debt instruments are recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account and are not included in the cost of acquisition.
Disposal of investments:
Profit / Loss on sale of investments under the aforesaid
three categories is recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account. Cost of investments is based on the weighted
average cost method. The profit from sale of investment
under HTM category, net of taxes and transfer to statutory
reserve is appropriated from the Profit and Loss Account
to "Capital Reserve".
Short sale:
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in Central
Government dated securities. The short position is
categorised under HFT category and netted off from
investments. The short position is marked to market and
loss, if any, is charged to the Profit and Loss Account
while gain, if any, is ignored. Profit / Loss on short sale is
recognised on settlement date.
Valuation:
Investments classified under AFS and HFT categories are
marked to market individually and depreciation / appreciation
is aggregated for each group and net depreciation in each
group is provided and net appreciation is ignored.
Traded investments are valued based on the trades /
quotes on the recognised stock exchanges or prices
published by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt Ltd.
230