Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
opportunities. The 'Teaching-The-Teacher' initiative has
impacted over 2 crore students since inception. The Holistic Rural
Development Programme has touched 9.88 lakh households
across more than 3,335 villages. Having an umbrella brand
enables the Bank to lend a sharper focus to these efforts.
Your Directors are also happy to report that your Bank met the
mandatory CSR expenditure through a spend of 736.01 crore.
CSR SPEND
₹736.01 crore
in FY 2021-22
For further details on Parivartan please refer to page no. 94.
Summary
The economy recovered in FY 2021-22 and India is
expected to be the fastest growing economy in the world in
FY 2022-23. There are of course inflationary pressures, but the
country has the ability to absorb these and the uncertainties
brought about by geopolitical issues. In the long run, the market
presents tremendous opportunities given the sheer level of
under penetration of banking services in the country. Your Bank
is well positioned to capitalise on these opportunities given the
strength of its franchise. It has geared up for the years ahead
through its Future Ready Strategy. This can be envisaged as 10
strategic pillars backed by key enablers to catalyse, create and
capture the next wave of growth. (To know more about this
please refer to page no. 32)
Your Bank is also poised to make a greater contribution to
bridge the urban-rural divide through both its business and
social activities and help build a country where more can
prosper together.
This will, of course, not be possible without the contribution of
the ever-growing family of over two lakh employees (including
those of the subsidiaries) across the country, who remain at the
forefront of taking your Bank forward every day. In the previous
two financial years, which were characterised by the pandemic,
our colleagues went beyond the call of duty to keep the bank
functioning. Many of them soldiered on despite the loss of loved
ones. We also lost some colleagues during the pandemic.
While we structured and delivered a compassion package to
the families of the deceased, no word or action can adequately
convey our sorrow.
Your Directors would also like to place on record that we did
not reduce salaries during this trying period. Your Bank paid
bonuses and increments on time in the year under review and
followed the normal promotion cycle. It is doing the same this
year as well.
Mission and Strategic Focus
Your Bank's mission is to be a 'World-Class Indian Bank'. Its
business philosophy is based on five core values: Customer
Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People
and Sustainability. Sustainability should be viewed in unison with
Environmental, Social and Governance performance. As a part
of this, your Bank, through its umbrella CSR brand Parivartan,
seeks to bring about change in the lives of communities mainly
in rural India.
During the year under review, the Bank did not lose its human
touch but continued building sound customer franchises across
distinct businesses to achieve healthy growth in profitability
consistent with your Bank's risk appetite.
In line with the above objective, the Bank aims to take digitalisation
to the next level to:
· Deliver superior experience and greater convenience
to customers
· Increase market share in India's growing banking and
financial services industry
· Expand geographical reach
· Cross-sell the broad financial product portfolio
· Sustain strong asset quality through disciplined credit
risk management
· Maintain low cost of funds
Your Bank remains committed to the highest levels of ethical
standards, professional integrity, corporate governance, and
regulatory compliance, which is articulated in its Code of
Conduct. Every employee affirms to abide by the Code annually.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
133