Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
The Bank's derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sale activities include the structuring and marketing of
derivatives to customers to enable them to hedge their market risks (both interest rate and exchange risks), within the regulatory
framework as applicable from time to time. The Bank deals in derivatives on its own account (trading activity) principally for the
purpose of generating a profit from short term fluctuations in price yields or implied volatility. The Bank also deals in derivatives
to hedge the risk embedded in some of its Balance Sheet assets or liabilities.
Constituents involved in derivative business
The Treasury front-office enters into derivative transactions with customers and inter-bank counterparties. The Bank has an
independent back-office and mid-office as per regulatory guidelines. The Bank has credit risk and market risk departments, as
part of the Risk Management Group, that assesses counterparty credit risk and market risk limits, within the risk architecture
and processes of the Bank.
Derivative policy
The Bank has in place a Derivative policy which covers various aspects that apply to the functioning of the derivative business.
The derivative business is administered through various market risk limits such as position limits, tenor limits, sensitivity limits,
scenario based profit and loss limit for option portfolio, stop loss trigger levels and value-at-risk limits that are recommended
by the Risk Policy and Monitoring Committee ('RPMC') to the Board of Directors for approval. All methodologies that are used
to assess market and credit risks for derivative transactions are specified by the credit risk and market risk units. Limits are
monitored on a daily basis by the mid-office.
The Bank has a Board approved policy on Customer Suitability & Appropriateness, which forms part of the Derivative policy, to
ensure that derivative transactions entered into are appropriate and suitable to the customer's nature of business / operations.
Before entering into a derivative deal with a customer, the Bank scores the customer on various risk parameters and based
on the overall score level it determines the kind of product that best suits its risk appetite and the customer's requirements.
Classification of derivatives book
The derivative book is classified into trading and hedging book. Classification of the derivative book is made on the basis of
the definitions of the trading and hedging specified in the RBI guidelines. The trading book is managed within the trading limits
recommended by the RPMC and approved by the Board of Directors.
Hedging policy
For derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments, the Bank documents, at inception of the hedge, the relationship
between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the risk management objective for undertaking the hedge and the
methods used to assess the hedge effectiveness. Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge
and periodically thereafter. Hedge effectiveness is measured by the degree to which changes in the fair value or cash flows
of the hedged item that are attributable to a hedged risk are offset by changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedging
instrument using various qualitative and quantitative methods.
The hedging book consists of transactions to hedge Balance Sheet assets or liabilities. The tenor of hedging instrument may be
less than or equal to the tenor of underlying hedged asset or liability. The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded in some
of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the balance sheet. In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value
of the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow hedges
other than for foreign exchange forward contracts, the changes in fair value of effective portion are recognised in Reserves
and Surplus under 'Cash flow hedge reserve' and ineffective portion of an effective hedging relationship, if any, is recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship,
is recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account. Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for trading, that are entered into to establish the amount
of reporting currency required or available at the settlement date of a transaction, and are outstanding at the Balance Sheet
date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate. The premia or discount arising at the inception of such forward exchange
contract is amortised as expense or income over the life of the contract.
. Provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation
The Bank enters into derivative transactions with counterparties based on their business ranking and financial position.
The Bank sets up appropriate limits upon evaluating the ability of the counterparty to honour its obligations in the event of
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 253