Strategy in Action
PayZapp Wallet, EMI and EPI/Direct
Pay. Customer spends have crossed
8 Lakh Crore in FY 22 with 63 Million+
cards (Credit Cards, Debit Cards
and prepaid cards) addressing every
market segment. Every third rupee
spent on cards in India, happens
on HDFC Bank cards. Adapting to
the changing customer behaviours,
we have expanded our customer
offerings. We are a leading player in
credit cards with a strong growth and
market share on both booksize/ENR
and spends. We have the best suite
of cards curated for the needs of both
young professionals and ultra premium
customers. Digitally enhancing
customer experience and services for
our customers is a key strategy and
we launched 'MyCards' application
to help card customers to self service
digitally. Our future plan is to fortify the
MyCards offering to a comprehensive
Cards servicing solution for the Credit
Card and Debit Card customers.
PayZapp is a key strategy to drive
customer engagement across all
payment forms. It will be providing
a strong, unified experience across
contactless payments, QR-based
payments, UPI payments, and BNPL,
and will be digitising all payment form
factors with rich features on a unified
platform. The revamped PayZapp
2 is around the corner and will be
providing a unified experience across
contactless payments. Smartbuy
continues to play a key role in
providing a strong loyalty framework
and has gained popularity among
customers for providing accelerated
reward points and reward redemptions
on a single platform. To complete our
suite of products and payment suite to
the retail consumers, we are scaling
BNPL with multiple variants that we are
building to make customer purchases
convenient. Between Credit Card EMI,
Debit Card EMI and paper financing,
we are riding the wave of innovation
and have become No.1 among all
banks in BNPL.
Acceptance business is all about
building the core network connecting
the entire payment ecosystem and
receipts business. Our full suite of
online and offline payment solutions
consists of Payment gateway, UPI,
EPI, Smart Hub platform, POS/M
POS, QR Code and Scan & Pay,
among others. Within acceptance
business, Merchant Acquiring
business provides the railroad for
banking solutions and payment
offerings to the largest customer
segment - MSMEs. As a Bank,
this business gets us entry into the
large and thriving MSME ecosystem
that forms the backbone of our
economy. We have been leading this
business and despite the disruptive
competition in this space, we have
about 47% market share in cards,
1 Million+ POS terminals deployed
and 14.5 Lakh Crore+ volume
acquired across cards, NetBanking
and UPI. We are strengthening our
Partnership pillar by forging alliances
with large fintech players to corner
large opportunity segments with
targeted value propositions like EMI,
pay later and digital storefronts.
Smart Hub continues to be a pioneer
comprehensive payment and banking
solution for all merchants, and we will
be launching the enhanced Smart
Hub App Platform soon. We have
been continuously transforming the
experience on SmartHub Vyapar
App platform to instantly become a
merchant with the widest range of
payment acceptance, easy access
to loans and banking solutions with a
single view of all transactions. Further,
the platform will allow merchants to
instantly open current account and
start accepting payments on the go.
Consumer Financing consists of
lending at the point of sale i.e. the
EMI business, and this business
feeds off the acceptance and
issuance business. We fund both
during purchase and post purchase
transactions through cutting-edge
offerings such as Cards EMI, Buy
now Pay later (BNPL), digital loans,
Smart EMI - Credit, Smart EMI -
Debit and inventory finance, among
others. We are reaching out to New to
Credit (NTC) customers and new age
customers, extensively in this space.
Technology and digital
As a future-ready bank, we are
technology and digital led in most of
our operations. Today, 93% of the
Bank's transactions are processed
digitally. As a part of our technology
transformation agenda, we have taken
great strides under the three legs of
Digital Factory, Enterprise Factory
and Enterprise IT. While Enterprise
Factory and Enterprise IT focus on
strengthening the core technologies
and networks, Digital factory is aimed
at enhancing customer experience
through differentiated products and
services. This approach is further
illustrated through our 5-pillar strategy
for bringing in key shifts in the banking
experience.
We aim to make day-to-day banking
simple for our retail customers through
easy and unified payment experiences
and seamless assisted and unassisted
journeys. Our ecosystem-based
offerings for MSMEs cover the entire
supply chain with native journeys
in local languages providing a
transformational commercial banking
experience. With APIfication and deep
ERP embedding, we offer frictionless
36