Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Employees other than Whole Time Directors, Material Risk Takers and Senior Management
The Bank has formulated the following variable pay plans:
· Annual Cash Variable Pay plan:
The quantum of variable payout is a function of the performance of the Bank, performance of the individual employee, job
band of the employee and the functional category. Basis these key determinants and due adjustment for risk alignment,
a payout matrix for variable pay is developed. Market trends for specific businesses / functions along with inputs from
compensation surveys may also be used in finalising the payout.
Bonus pools are designed to meet specific business needs therefore resulting in differentiation in both the quantum and
the method of payout across functions. Typically higher levels of responsibility receive a higher proportion of variable pay
vis-à-vis fixed pay.
For Employees in Job Bands of Vice President and above the variable Pay intends to reward short term as well as
long term sustained performance of the bank and shareholder value creation.
Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable pay is
based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by the business
performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.
Long term Performance: Employee Stock options are granted to employees based on their performance rating and
Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the Bank and creation of shareholder value.
The vesting period for Employee Stock Option is 4 years.
· Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given sales,
collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the achievement
of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by qualitative parameters.
A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any unforeseen performance
risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan, could be paid out monthly
or quarterly.
F. Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms) that
the Bank utilises and the rationale for using these different forms
The Bank recognises the importance of variable pay in reinforcing a pay for performance culture. Variable pay stimulates
employees to stretch their abilities to exceed expectations.
· Annual Cash Variable Pay
These are paid to reward performance for a given financial year. This covers all employees (excluding employees
under PLPs). This is based on performance of the business unit, performance rating, job band and functional
category of the individual. For higher job bands the proportion of variable pay to total compensation tends to be
higher. For Material Risk Takers, Senior Management and Whole Time Directors 50% of the cash variable pay is
deferred over 3 years in the event the cash variable pay exceeds 25 lakhs.
· Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the
achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by
qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any
unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan,
could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
· Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP)
This is to reward for contribution of employees in creating a long term, sustainable earnings and enhancing
shareholder value. Only employees in a certain job band and with a specific performance rating are eligible for
stock options. Performance is the key criteria for granting stock options.
282