Schedules to the Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
of overdue and future receivables relating to positive
marked to market value of the said derivative contracts.
The Bank maintains general provision for standard assets
including credit exposures computed as per the current
marked to market values of interest rate and foreign
exchange derivative contracts and gold. In the case of
overseas branches, general provision on standard assets
is maintained at the higher of the levels stipulated by the
respective overseas regulator or RBI. Provision for standard
assets is included under other liabilities.
In addition to the above, the Bank on a prudent basis
makes provisions on advances or exposures which are not
NPAs, but has reasons to believe on the basis of the extant
environment or specific information or basis regulatory
guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific
advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions
and included under other liabilities.
Provisions made in addition to the Bank's policy for specific
loan loss provisions for non-performing assets, possible
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general
provisions are categorised as floating provisions. Creation
of floating provisions is considered by the Bank up to a level
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non-
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included
under other liabilities.
Further to the provisions required to be held according
to the asset classification status, provisions are held for
individual country exposures (other than for home country
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd.
('ECGC') guidelines and provisioning is done in respect of
that country where the net funded exposure is one percent
or more of the Bank's total assets. Provision for country risk
is included under other liabilities.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset
classification and necessary provisions thereon are done
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines.
3
Securitisation and transfer of assets
Assets transferred through securitisation and direct
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance
Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria being fully met
with) and consideration is received. Sales / transfers that do
not meet true sale criteria are accounted for as borrowings.
For a securitisation or direct assignment transaction, the
Bank recognises profit upon receipt of the funds and loss
is recognised at the time of sale.
On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below
the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific
provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and
Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than the
net book value, the excess provision is credited to the
Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum of cash
received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption
or transfer of security receipts issued by SC / RC exceeds
the net book value of the loan at the time of transfer.
In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset
securitisation, where the investment by the bank in security
receipts (SRs) backed by the assets sold by it is more than
10 percent of such SRs, provisions held are higher of the
provisions required in terms of net asset value declared by the
Securitisation Company ('SC') / Reconstruction Company
('RC') and provisions as per the extant norms applicable to
the underlying loans, notionally treating the book value of
these SRs as the corresponding stressed loans assuming
the loans remained in the books of the Bank.
The Bank invests in Pass Through Certificates (PTCs)
issued by other Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). These
are accounted at acquisition cost and are classified as
investments. The Bank also buys loans through the direct
assignment route which are classified as advances. These
are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the
face value, in which case the premium is amortised based
on effective interest rate method.
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank
participation with and without risk. In the case of participation
with risk, the aggregate amount of the participation issued
by the Bank is reduced from advances. In case where
the Bank is assuming risk by participation, the aggregate
amount of the participation is classified under advances.
In the case of issue of participation certificate without
risk, the aggregate amount of participation issued by the
Bank is classified under borrowings and where the Bank
is acquiring participation certificate, the aggregate amount
of participation acquired is shown as due from banks
under advances.
4
Fixed assets and depreciation
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation as adjusted for impairment, if any. Cost
includes cost of purchase and all expenditure like site
preparation, installation costs and professional fees
232