Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
The new facilities help ensure the Board's continued focus on
ensuring a robust IT infrastructure for the Bank's applications
and operations with higher customer uptimes across
digital touchpoints.
5. Technology Obsolescence Management
A technology obsolescence program management office was
established in June 2021 for comprehensive obsolescence
tracking and management. Processes and procedures have
been introduced to identify and remediate obsolete components
6 months before the end of support. The scope covers more
than 19,000 components across the Bank's IT environment as
of today. A detailed plan is in place to remediate components
pertaining to high-risk applications by June 2022. The Bank
continues to maintain rigorous monitoring on obsolescence
through periodic reviews and reporting along with the
senior management.
6. Cyber Security
Cyber security is at the heart of the technology transformation
journey with substantial advancements being made to further
fortify the Bank's infrastructure and applications. A few initiatives
in this regard are:
· Foundation of a next-gen Security Operations Centre
(SOC) with advanced technologies for predictive security
and incident management - To this effect, the Bank
has provisioned the Securonix platform on AWS and
configured more than 10,000 logging sources and devices
for monitoring
· Introduction of Security Orchestration, Automation &
Response (SOAR) to reduce the incident response time
by connecting security solutions with each other and
automating the incident life cycle
· Micro-segmentation is being enabled in the data centre
network to allow higher visibility across network flows as
well as stronger preparedness and management against
ransomware related events/incidents
. 24x7 defacement monitoring and vulnerability management
of the Bank's internet properties minimise the surface area
for cyber security attacks.
Technology related challenges over the past few years have
only made the Bank's resolve stronger to consolidate and fortify
its technology environment. Focused technology and digital
investments and programs in technology are pivotal to the Bank
to usher in the new age of digital banking and experiences for
its customers.
Service Quality Initiatives and Grievance Redressal
Customer Focus is one of the five core values of your Bank.
Driven by this core value, your Bank has always endeavoured
to improve customer experience and has adopted a holistic
approach for the same across multiple channels. This is critical
in a highly competitive business environment, especially since
it has various lines of businesses. Ensuring product quality and
service delivery becomes vital for business growth. Your Bank
desires to achieve this by seeking customer feedback as well
as benchmarking with best-in-class business entities. Your bank
has adopted a three-step strategy with regards to Customer
Service - Define, Measure, and Improve.
Your Bank has adopted a multi-pronged approach to provide
an omnichannel experience to its customers. On one side, your
Bank has traditional touch points like Branch, Email Management
team and Phone banking, and on the other side, it has state- of-
the-art platforms like NetBankinbg, MobileBanking, the chatbot
Eva and the bank's exclusive social care handles which offer a
wide range of channel choice to its customers. Your Bank has
also improvised on the relationship-based banking programmes.
In addition to the branch-based relationship managers, it also
has a Virtual Relationship Manager (VRM) programme to cater
to various financial needs in a personalized manner. Your Bank
invites and reviews the performance on customer service as well
as grievance redressal at different levels which are Branch Level
Customer Service Committees (BLCSCs), Standing Committee
on Customer Service (SCCS) and Customer Service Committee
of the Board (CSCB). Your Bank has put robust processes in
place to regularly monitor and measure quality of service levels
not only at various touch points but also at a product and
process level by Quality Initiatives Group.
As part of its continuous efforts to enhance quality of service, the
Service Quality team carries out regular reviews across various
products/processes/channels. The effectiveness of the quality
of service provided is also reviewed at different levels, including
the Customer Service Committee of the Board.
One of the basic building blocks of providing acceptable level
of customer service is to have an effective internal Grievance
Redressal mechanism / framework. In this regard, the bank has
outlined a framework for redressal of customer grievances and
documented it in the form of a Grievance Redressal Policy - duly
approved by its Board. Bank has also made this policy available
in public domain (on the website as well as in the branches).
Your Bank has provided multiple channels to its customers
to share feedback on its services as well as register their
grievances. Your Bank is at the forefront of developing innovative
financial solutions and digital platforms. This, coupled with
concerted efforts at creating awareness among customers,
has led to an increase in the use of its digital channels as well
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 145