Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
Acute
physical
Acute physical hazards can have a negative influence on our
credit portfolio by causing bad debts due to damage to property,
infrastructure, and land. This is also relevant for climate disasters
destroying assets (that serve as collaterals). We continue to
measure physical risks from a climate risk assessment perspective
and will assess the priority of these risks in the near-to-medium
term. In addition, our Disaster Response and Business Continuity
teams conduct business impact analyses and have rapid response
procedures in place in the event of natural disasters such as floods.
Chronic
physical
Chronic physical risks are far into the future. Given that climate risk
is an emerging and long-term risk us, we will consider adopting
a suitable methodology/pathway to analyse our exposures under
different climate scenarios.
Evaluation of environmental & social
risk is an integral part of our overall
credit appraisal and approval process.
Large industrial / infrastructure
projects where the extension of
long-term financing (greater than
₹100 million and longer than 5
years) are covered under the Bank's
Social & Environment Monitoring
System (SEMS) which necessitates
an assessment of Environmental,
Health, Social, and Safety risks in
addition to other risks as part of the
overall credit appraisal process. This
comprehensive assessment involves
evaluation of various environmental
and social aspects of the project and
operations of the borrowing entity -
such as the nature of the borrower's
operations, as well as any potential
negative environmental and social
consequences. We have already
mapped potential impact categories
for risk evaluation of specific, capital-
intensive industries such as Roads
and Highways, Thermal Power, Power
Transmission, Cement, Hydroelectric
Power, and Manufacturing amongst
others to guide the assessment
process. While the bank's lending
procedures are guided by borrower
and market demands, the bank's credit
exposure is well diversified across
numerous industries, with no single
industry having a high concentration.
As a result, the Bank's credit exposure
to ecologically / socially sensitive
industry sectors has minimal negative
consequences. In addition, as part
of our credit policy, we do not extend
finance for setting up of new units for
producing/consuming ozone-depleting
substances (CFC -11, CFC - 12, CFC
- 113, Carbon Tetrachloride, Methyl
Chloroform, Halons - 1211, 1301, 2402)
and for small & medium scale units
engaged in the manufacture of aerosol
units using CFC.
We recognise the importance of water
availability affecting our portfolio,
especially in certain sectors like
agriculture. As part of our credit due
diligence, we evaluate loan proposals
against water availability with an
assured irrigation facility. In case of
climate-linked events like droughts,
we extend crop insurance facility to
borrowers (who harvest at least two
cropping cycles).
Metrics and Targets
We are firming up an integrated
strategy to achieve carbon neutrality
by 2032, which will set internal
benchmarks for energy performance
and targets for phased renewable
energy integration. We will monitor
the implementation of interventions
and emission reduction achievements
every two years and realign our
integrated strategy incorporating
the best available technologies and
practices.
We plan to enhance our commitment
to financing climate change solutions
such as energy transition, renewables,
energy efficiency, sustainable
transportation, green buildings,
climate smart agriculture, among
others, besides monitoring the
implications of our own operations.
We are working on developing KPIs
and setting goals to monitor, manage,
and track the progress. This involves
a thorough examination of our Scope
3 emissions and our carbon-related
asset exposure. Please refer to the
Environment section of this Report
for details on our performance on
emissions and energy-related KPIs.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
73