Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
The vesting would be no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting would be more than a year
in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk.
(iv)
Malus / Clawback Arrangement:
The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank, therefore, has
devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the deferred portion
of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The RBI guidelines define Malus
thus "A Malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred remuneration.
Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred".
Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward (cash variable
pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years attributable to a given reference
year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of net amount. The RBI guidelines define Clawback
thus "A Clawback is a contractual agreement between the employee and the bank in which the employee agrees to
return previously paid or vested remuneration to the bank under certain circumstances".
The Malus and Clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving fraudulent
behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory norms resulting in financial
or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to have a malafide intent. Illustrative list of
conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all of the following conditions / events shall trigger a
review by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a)
Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b)
Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
c)
Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d)
Reputational harm
e)
Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f)
Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review by NRC for
the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement.
In determining the causes for deterioration in financial performance under (a), the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
may take into consideration and have due regard to the fact whether the deterioration was for factors within control or
whether it was on account of conditions like global market headwinds, industry performance, changes in legal / regulatory
regime, force majeure events like occurrence of natural disasters, pandemic, other socio-economic conditions etc.
While undertaking the review for the concerned person for the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement
based on any trigger events, when determining accountability of the concerned person, the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee shall be guided by the principles of proportionality, culpability or proximity or nexus to the event or misconduct.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, wherever the assessed divergence in bank's provisioning for Non-Performing
Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the bank shall not pay the
unvested portion of the variable compensation for the assessment year under 'Malus' arrangement. Further, in such
situations, no proposal for increase in variable pay (for the assessment year) shall be entertained. In case the bank's post
assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply only if criteria for public disclosure are triggered
either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning and asset classification.
The NRC may decide to apply Malus on part, or all of the unvested deferred Variable pay. The time horizon for the
application of Malus / Clawback clause shall be four years from the date of reward.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall review the act of misconduct / incident to ascertain the degree of
accountability attributable to a Whole Time Director / Material Risk Taker / Senior Management (C1 and above) prior to
applying the Malus or Clawback arrangement.
The criteria for Malus / Clawback will be reviewed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee annually.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 281