Independent Auditor's Report
b.
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial
statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors;
C.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account and the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of
preparation of the consolidated financial statements;
d.
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under
Section 133 of the Act, read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 to the extent they are not inconsistent
with the guidelines prescribed by RBI;
e.
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Bank as on March 31, 2022 taken on record
by the Board of Directors of the Bank and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, none of the
directors of the Group companies, are disqualified as on March 31, 2022 from being appointed as a director in terms of
Section 164(2) of the Act;
f.
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial controls with reference to the consolidated financial statements of the
Group and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in "Annexure A";
g.
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor's Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditor's) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
given to us:
i.
. The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on the consolidated financial
position of the Group - Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(D)(17) and Schedule 18(12)(d)(1) & (2) to the consolidated
financial statements;
ii.
Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or accounting
standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts - Refer
Schedule 17(D)(7) & 17(D)(17) and Schedule 18(12)(d) to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such
items as it relates to the Group; and
iii.
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection
Fund by the Bank and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
iv.
1.
The Management of the Bank has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as
disclosed in the notes to accounts, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed
funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Bank and its subsidiary companies to
or in any other persons / entities, including foreign entities ('Intermediaries'), with the understanding, whether
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary has, whether directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank, and its subsidiary companies
("Ultimate Beneficiaries") or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
2.
The Management of the Bank has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as
disclosed in the notes to accounts, no funds have been received by the Bank and its subsidiary companies
from any persons / entities, including foreign entities, that the Bank and its subsidiary companies have directly
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf
of the Funding Party ("Ultimate Beneficiaries") or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
3.
Based on the audit procedures which we have considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances
and according to the information and explanations provided to us by the Management of Bank in this regard,
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations made by the Management
of Bank under sub-clause (1) and (2) contain any material misstatement.
V.
The Bank and its subsidiary companies has paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123
of the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
304