Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
(iii) Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOPs)
Employees in Job Bands D3 and above also receive ESOPs as a vehicle to create a balance between short
term rewards and long term sustainable value creation. ESOPs play a key role in the attraction and retention
of key talent.
The NRC grants options after considering parameters such as the incumbent's grade and performance rating,
and such other factors as may be deemed appropriate by the NRC.
All plans for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time
to time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post
approval by the NRC.
The Bank grants ESOPs to eligible employees. Such ESOPs vest over four tranches spread over a period of
48 months.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options is included as part of Variable Pay.
Risk, Control and Compliance Staff
The Bank has separated the Risk, Control and Compliance functions from the Business functions in order
to create a strong culture of checks and balances and to eliminate any possible conflict of interest between
revenue generation and risk management and control. Accordingly, the overall variable pay as well as the
annual salary increment of the employees in the Risk, Control and Compliance functions is based on their
performance, functional objectives and goals. The Bank ensures that the mix of fixed to variable compensation
for these functions is weighted in favour of fixed compensation.
Guaranteed Bonus
Guaranteed Bonuses are not consistent with sound risk management or pay for performance principles of the
Bank and therefore do not form an integral part of the general compensation practice.
For critical hiring for some select strategic roles, the Bank may consider granting of bonus, based on the
performance rating upon confirmation, as a prudent way to avoid loading the entire cost of attraction into the
fixed component of the compensation which could have a long term cost implication for the Bank. For such
hiring, the said bonus is generally decided by taking into account appropriate risk factors and market conditions.
For hiring at levels of Whole Time Directors / Managing Director / Material Risk Takers and certain employees
in select strategic roles, a signon bonus, if any, is limited to the first year only and would be in the form of
Employee Stock Options.
Severance Pay
The Bank does not grant severance pay other than accrued benefits (such as gratuity, pension) except in cases
where it is mandated by any statute.
Hedging
The Bank does not provide any facility or fund or permit its Whole Time Directors and employees to insure or hedge
their compensation structure to offset the risk alignment effects embedded in their compensation arrangement.
Statutory Bonus
Some employees are also paid statutory bonus as per the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 as amended from time
to time.
III. Remuneration Processes
Fitment at the time of Hire
Pay scales at the Bank are set basis the job size, experience, location and the academic and professional credentials
of the incumbent.
The compensation of new hires is in line with the existing pay ranges and consistent with the compensation levels of
the existing employees of the Bank at similar profiles. The pay ranges are subject to change basis market trends and
the Bank's talent management priorities. While the Bank believes in the internal equity and parity as a key determinant
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 277