Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
18 Segment reporting
Business segments
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the guidelines
prescribed by RBI. The Group operates in the following segments:
(a) Treasury
The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank's investment portfolio, money market
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and
derivative contracts.
(b) Retail banking
The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank's branch network and other channels. This segment
raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help of specialist product
groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the borrower (orientation criterion),
the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, fees from
services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products, etc. Expenses of this segment primarily comprise interest
expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating
the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of
specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
(c)
Wholesale banking
The wholesale banking segment provides loans, non-fund facilities and transaction services to large corporates, emerging
corporates, public sector units, government bodies, financial institutions and medium scale enterprises. Revenues of the
wholesale banking segment consist of interest earned on loans made to customers, interest / fees earned on the cash
float arising from transaction services, earnings from trade services and other non-fund facilities and also earnings from
foreign exchange and derivative transactions on behalf of customers. The principal expenses of the segment consist of
interest expense on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel
costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of delivery channels, specialist product groups, processing units
and support groups.
(d) Other banking business
This segment includes income from parabanking activities such as credit cards, debit cards, third party product
distribution, primary dealership business and the associated costs. This segment also includes Bank's subsidiaries.
(e) Unallocated
All items which are reckoned at an enterprise level are classified under this segment. This includes capital and reserves,
debt classified as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital and other unallocable assets and liabilities such as deferred tax, prepaid
expenses, etc.
Segment revenue includes earnings from external customers plus earnings from funds transferred to other segments. Segment
result includes revenue less interest expense less operating expense and provisions, if any, for that segment. Segment-wise
income and expenses include certain allocations. Interest income is charged by a segment that provides funding to another
segment, based on yields benchmarked to an internally approved yield curve or at a certain agreed transfer price rate.
Transaction charges are levied by the retail banking segment to the wholesale banking segment for the use by its customers
of the retail banking segment's branch network or other delivery channels. Segment capital employed represents the net
assets in that segment.
Geographic segments
The geographic segments of the Bank are categorised as domestic operations and foreign operations. Domestic operations
comprise branches in India and foreign operations comprise branches outside India.
350