Materiality Assessment
Priority
Rank
S.
No.
Sustainability topics
Description
7.
17.
Transparency
and disclosure
GRI aspects: General disclosure -
Reporting practice
Capitals impacted:
H
With the increased demand for ESG disclosures among stakeholders, it is critical to ensure that such
reporting is accurate and reliable. We have a sustainability strategy and reporting programme in place
that clearly articulates our sustainability strategy, risks, and opportunities, as well as performance on
We also place high value on report assurance, so our Sustainability Report and Green House Gas (GHG)
material ESG topics.
emissions are verified by third-party auditors in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) Standards.
8.
15.
Economic
performance
GRI aspects: Economic performance
Capitals impacted:
Economic performance is critical to maintain stability and positive momentum. We strive to provide our
stakeholders with increased long-term value. Even during challenging times, we have performed well,
aided by our prudent management and capital allocation strategies.
9.
13.
Systematic
risk management
GRI aspects: General Disclosure -
Governance
Capitals impacted:
Through the effective use of processes, information and technology, we have deployed a multi-layered
risk management strategy that identifies, assesses, monitors and manages risks (credit, market,
liquidity, interest rate, and operational). A Board-approved Stress Testing Policy & System, which is
an integral aspect of our ICAAP, is part of our overall risk management framework (Internal Capital
Adequacy Assessment Process). Stress testing is done by employing a variety of ways to determine
our vulnerability to excessive yet realistically stressful scenarios. Additionally, we use a SEMS (Social &
Environmental Management System) framework to analyse social and environmental credit risks. Risk
exposures are actively identified and reported to the appropriate levels of management, so that risk
mitigation actions can be implemented. The risk management function is independent of business and
reports directly to the Managing Director.
10.
11.
Financial
inclusion
GRI aspects: Economic performance; Local
communities
Capitals impacted:
Financial inclusion is key to India's inclusive development agenda. The banking sector has a pivotal
role to play in serving the underbanked, especially in rural and semi-urban areas. We see this as an
opportunity to broaden our reach and make our products and services more accessible. While we
continue to focus on the Corporate Cluster and Government Business to increase penetration, we see
Commercial (MSME) and Rural Banking driving the next wave of growth.
11.
14.
Responsible
financing
GRI aspects: Environmental compliance;
Socioeconomic compliance
Capitals impacted:
Evaluation of environmental and social risk is an integral part of our overall credit appraisal and approval
process. Large industrial/infrastructure projects where the extension of long-term financing (greater than
₹100 Million and longer than 5 years) are covered under the Bank's Social & Environment Monitoring
System (SEMS) which necessitates an assessment of Environmental, Health, Social, and Safety risks in
addition to other risks, as part of the overall credit appraisal process.
As a rule, we do not fund projects that have a negative impact on the environment, health, or safety. We
want to make funding available for environmentally viable projects that help mitigate climate change risks.
To reduce our carbon footprint, we continue to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency projects.
Customers are also encouraged to make 'green banking' decisions.
12.
6.
Employee
welfare
GRI aspects: Employment
Capitals impacted:
8
W We engage with employees and their families through a variety of initatives through our Employee
Connect program. Over the years and especially during the pandemic, we saw a significant increase in
the employee participation. Many of these initiatives were virtually run during the last two years to ensure
employee safety. We also run an Employee Welfare Trust which is primarily set up to support employees
in case of emergencies where the expenses extend beyond the mediclaim cover that we provide to all
employees and their families. During the pandemic, support from the trust was generously extended to
all employees who needed it.
30