Directors' Report
as customer loyalty. Keeping customer interest in focus, your
Bank has formulated a Board approved Protection Policy, which
limits the liability of customers in case of unauthorized electronic
banking transactions
Your Bank is on a journey to measure customer loyalty through
a high velocity, closed loop customer feedback system. This
customer experience transformation programme will help
employees empathize better with customers and improve
turnaround times. Branded as 'Infinite Smiles', the programme
would help establish behaviours and practices that result in
customer-centric actions through continuous improvements in
product, services, process, and policies.
Thanks to these initiatives, your Bank's customer complaints for
FY 21-22 decreased by 21 percent from 4,67,453* to 3,68,291.
*Restated complaints number based on reclassification of
queries into complaints from 3,25,786.
Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
1) Risk Management and Portfolio Quality
Traditionally, the key risks that your Bank is exposed to in the
course of its business have been the Pillar 1 risks - Credit Risk,
Market Risk and Operational Risk. Given the evolving banking
environment, Liquidity Risk, Information Technology Risk and
Information Security Risk have also become vital. These risks
not only have a bearing on your Bank's financial strength and
operations but also on its reputation. Keeping this in mind,
the Bank has put in place Board-approved risk strategy and
policies, whose implementation is supervised by the Risk Policy
and Monitoring Committee (RPMC). The Committee ensures
that frameworks are established for assessing and managing
various risks faced by your Bank, systems are developed to
relate risk to the Bank's capital level and methods are in place for
monitoring compliance with internal risk management policies
and processes. The Committee guides the development
of policies, procedures and systems for managing risks. It
ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing
business conditions, the structure and needs of your Bank and
its risk appetite.
The hallmark of your Bank's risk management function is that it
is independent of the business sourcing unit with convergence
only at the CEO level.
The gamut of key risks faced by the Bank which are dimensioned
and managed include:
· Credit Risk, including Residual Risks
· Market Risk
· Operational Risk
· Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book
· Liquidity Risk
· Intraday Liquidity Risk
· Intra Day Credit Risk
· Credit Concentration Risk
· Counterparty Credit Risk
· Model Risk
· Outsourcing Risk
· People Risk
· Business Risk
· Strategic Risk
· Compliance Risk
· Reputation Risk
· Technology Risk
· Group Risk
Credit Risk
Credit Risk is defined as the possibility of losses associated with
diminution in the credit quality of borrowers or counterparties.
Losses stem from outright default or reduction in portfolio
value. Your Bank has a distinct credit risk architecture,
policies, procedures and systems for managing credit risk in
both its retail and wholesale businesses. Wholesale lending is
managed on an individual as well as portfolio basis. In contrast,
retail lending, given the granularity of individual exposures, is
managed largely on a portfolio basis across various products
and customer segments. For both categories, there are robust
front-end and back-end systems in place to ensure credit quality
and to minimise loss from default. The factors considered while
sanctioning retail loans include income, demographics, credit
history, loan tenor and banking behaviour. In addition, there are
multiple credit risk models developed and used to appraise and
score different segments of customers on the basis of portfolio
behaviour. In wholesale loans, credit risk is managed by capping
exposures on the basis of borrower group, industry, credit rating
grades and country, among others. This is backed by portfolio
diversification, stringent credit approval processes and periodic
post-disbursement monitoring and remedial measures. Your
Bank has been able to ensure strong asset quality through
volatile times in the lending environment by stringently adhering
to prudent norms and institutionalised processes. Your Bank
also has a robust framework for assessing Counterparty Banks,
which are reviewed periodically to ensure interbank exposures
are within approved appetite.
146