Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Details in respect of frauds reported by auditors
under section 143 (12)
During the year under review, no instances of fraud committed
against the Bank by its officers or employees were reported by
the Statutory Auditors and Secretarial Auditors under Section
143(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 to the Audit Committee or
the Board of Directors of the Bank.
Directors' Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to Section 134 (3) (c) read with Section 134 (5) of the
Companies Act, 2013, the Board of Directors hereby confirm that:
. In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable
accounting standards have been followed along with
proper explanation relating to material departures.
· We have selected such accounting policies and applied
them consistently and made judgments and estimates that
are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Bank as on March 31, 2022
and of the profit of the Bank for the year ended on that date.
. We have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, for safeguarding
the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting
fraud and other irregularities.
· We have prepared the annual accounts on a going
concern basis.
. We have laid down internal financial controls to be followed
by the Bank and have ensured that such internal financial
controls were adequate and operating effectively.
· We have devised proper systems to ensure compliance
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such
systems were adequate and were operating effectively.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
The Bank is in compliance with all applicable Secretarial
Standards as notified from time to time.
Statutory Auditors
M. M. Nissim & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants and MSKA &
Associates, Chartered Accountants, have conducted the joint
statutory audit of the Bank for FY 2021-22, pursuant to the
approval of the RBI and the shareholders of the Bank.
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Audit
Committee, has finalized for recommendation to RBI for
approval, the name of M/s. Price Waterhouse LLP, Chartered
Accountants as the first preferred firm to act as Joint Statutory
Auditors of the Bank in relation to the Financial Years 2022-23,
2023-24 and 2024-25, subject to approval of the shareholders at
the ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM). This firm shall act as
the Joint Statutory Auditors along with M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP,
Chartered Accountants for the remainder of the latter's tenure.
Appropriate resolutions in this regard are also being proposed
at the ensuing AGM.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, fees paid to MSKA & Associates and M.M. Nissim & Co. LLP and their respective network
firms on consolidated basis are as follows:
(₹ in crores)
Fees (excluding taxes)
HDFC Bank to Statutory Auditors
HDFC Bank to network firms of
Statutory Auditors
Subsidiaries of HDFC Bank
to Statutory Auditors and its
network firms
Statutory Audit*
3.85
-
-
Certification & other attestation
services
1.88
-
-
Non-audit services
-
-
-
Outlays
0.02
-
-
Total
5.75
-
-
*Out of the total statutory audit fees, ₹ 3.30 crore were approved at the AGM held on July 17, 2021 and the balance ₹ 0.55 crore is proposed to the
shareholders for approval at the ensuing AGM
Disclosure under Foreign Exchange Management
Act, 1999
As far as FEMA compliances in relation to strategic downstream
investments in the Bank's subsidiaries is concerned, during the
year under review, there have been no strategic downstream
investments made by Bank in its subsidiaries. Accordingly,
the Bank has obtained a certificate from MSKA & Associates,
Chartered Accountants, to this effect.
Corporate Social Responsibility
The brief outline of the CSR policy of the Bank and the initiatives
undertaken by the Bank on CSR activities during the year are
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 153