Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Control functions by periodically reviewing their practices and
processes as well as recommending enhancements thereof.
Additionally, oversight is also kept on the functioning of the
subsidiaries, related party transactions and extent of adherence
to the licensing conditions of the RBI.
Any new product/process introduced in your Bank is reviewed by
Compliance function in order to ensure adherence to regulatory
guidelines and also by Internal Audit from the perspective of
existence of internal controls. The Audit function also proactively
recommends improvements in operational processes and
service quality, wherever deemed fit.
To ensure independence, the Internal Audit Function has a
reporting line to the Audit Committee of the Board and a dotted line
reporting to the Managing Director for administrative purposes.
The Compliance function independently tracks, reviews and
ensures compliance with regulatory guidelines and promotes a
compliance culture in the Bank.
Your Bank has a comprehensive Know Your Customer,
Anti Money Laundering (AML) and Combating Financing of
Terrorism (CFT) policy (based on the RBI guidelines/provisions
of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) incorporating
the key elements of Customer Acceptance Policy, Customer
Identification Procedures, Risk Management and Monitoring of
Transactions. The policy is subjected to an annual review and is
duly approved by the Board.
Your Bank besides having robust controls in place to ensure
adherence to the KYC guidelines at the time of account opening
also has monitoring process at various stages of the customer
lifecycle including a continuous review process in the form of
transaction monitoring carried out by a dedicated AML CFT
monitoring team, which carries out transaction reviews for
identification of suspicious patterns/trends that enables your
Bank to further carry out enhanced due diligence (wherever
required) and appropriate actions thereafter. The status of
adherence to the KYC, AML and CFT guidelines is also placed
before the Audit Committee of the Board for their review at
quarterly intervals.
The Audit team and the Compliance team undergo regular
training both in-house and external to equip them with the
necessary knowhow and expertise to carry out the function.
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the effectiveness
of controls, compliance with regulatory guidelines as also the
performance of the Audit and Compliance functions in your Bank
and provides direction, wherever deemed fit. Your Bank has
always adhered to the highest standards of compliance and
has put in place appropriate controls and risk measurement
and risk management tools to ensure a robust compliance and
governance structure.
G) Performance of Subsidiary Companies
Your Bank has two subsidiaries, HDB Financial Services Limited
(HDBFSL) and HDFC Securities Limited (HSL). HDBFSL is a
leading NBFC that caters primarily to segments not covered
by the Bank while HSL is among India's leading retail broking
firms. The financial results of the subsidiaries are prepared in
accordance with notified Indian Accounting Standards ('Ind-AS').
The detailed financial performance of the companies is
given below.
Transacting customers of HSL
12.73 lakh
HDFC Securities Limited (HSL)
HSL's Total Income under Indian Accounting Standards was
₹ 1,990.30 crore as against ₹ 1,399.43 crore in the previous
year and Net Profit was ₹ 984.34 crore as against ₹ 703.22
crore in the previous year. The company has a customer base of
38.30 lakh to whom it offers an exhaustive range of investment
and protection products. In the year under review, HSL had
12.73 lakh transacting customers. The focus on digitalisation
continued. Notably, 91 per cent of its customers accessed its
services digitally, against 92 per cent in the previous year.
In a conscious effort to rationalise the distribution network
with greater emphasis on digital offerings, HSL consolidated
its existing branches to end with 216 branches across 147
cities / towns at the end of the year. It created digital Boarding
Journeys which led to more than 50 per cent customers being
onboarded digitally.
In the case of Margin Trade Funding (MTF), the average book
size during the year was ₹ 2,992 crore, which is more than three
times the average book size of ₹ 930 crore in the last financial
year. The book size at the year end stands at ₹ 3,288 crore.
Nifty rose right from the beginning of FY 2021-22 to touch a peak
in mid-October 2021. It corrected later to a low in early March
2022. An upward bounce later led to Nifty closing the fiscal not
very far from the all-time high of October 2021. The Indian equity
market gave solid returns in FY 2021-22, despite geopolitical
turmoil playing spoilsport in the last quarter of the financial
year. Nifty50 recorded an impressive 19 per cent year-on-year
gain and ended the financial year with the second-best returns
in seven years. Broader markets also put up an impressive
performance. The Nifty Midcap 100, up more than 25 per cent
y-o-y, and the Nifty Smallcap 100, up more than 29 per cent
y-o-y, out performed the benchmark in FY 2021-22. Sectoral
indices also posted decent performance during this period.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
151