Directors' Report
offerings such as Bharat QR Code, UPI, and SMS pay solutions.
It has also pioneered products such as the SmartHub app for
small merchants and DigiPos, which enables traditional PoS
machines to accept digital payments.
RBI, through its order dated December 2, 2020, advised
your Bank to immediately (i) stop sourcing of new credit card
customers and (ii) stop all launches of digital business generating
activities planned under program Digital 2.0.
RBI lifted the restrictions on new credit card acquisitions in
August 2021 followed by the removal of the embargo on the
Digital 2.0 program in March 2022.
The Bank has since been working on the following four pillars:
making credit cards more powerful and customer focused,
entering into strategic alliances and forging partnerships,
enhancing focus on customers' experience and complaints and
digitalising the user journeys
CREDIT CARDS IN FORCE
1.65
crore
The Virtual Relationship Management practice is an integrated
customer centric approach covering three pillars - Virtual
Relationships, Virtual Sales and Virtual Care. A banking
experience with digital ease and personalised conversations is
at the core of our VRM strategy. As digital or contactless banking
became a necessity during the pandemic, this programme gained
further traction in the year under review. Under VRM, relationship
managers reach out to customers through remote and digital
platforms resulting in deeper and cost effective engagement.
As digital literacy and exposure increases exponentially, VRMs
are gaining wider acceptance through deeper engagement and
relationships backed by a strong product offering.
Meanwhile, your Bank also added 734 branches during the
year, taking the total to 6,342. As of March 31, 2022, the Bank's
distribution network was at 6,342 branches and 18,130 ATMs /
Cash Deposit & Withdrawal Machines (CDMs) across 3,188 cities
/ towns as against 5,608 branches and 16,087 ATMs / CDMs
across 2,902 cities / towns as of March 31, 2021. Fifty per cent of
our branches are in semi-urban and rural areas. In addition, the
Bank has 15,341 business correspondents, which are primarily
manned by Common Service Centres (CSCs). The total number
of customers your Bank catered to as on March 31, 2022 was
over 7.10 crore, up from over 6.18 crore in the previous year.
As you are aware, your Bank operates in the Home Loan Business
in conjunction with HDFC Limited. As per this arrangement, your
Bank sells HDFC home loans while HDFC Limited approves and
disburses them. Your Bank receives sourcing fee for these loans
and as per the arrangement, has the option to purchase up to 70
per cent of fully disbursed loans either through the issuance of
mortgage-backed Pass Through Certificates (PTCs) or a direct
assignment of loans. The balance is retained by HDFC Limited.
Your Bank originated, on an average ₹ 3,550 crore of home loans
every month in the year under review and purchased ₹ 28,205
crore as direct assignment of loans.
Third Party Products
Your Bank distributes Life, General and Health Insurance, and
Mutual Funds (third party products). Income from this business
grew by 24 per cent to ₹ 4,422 crore from ₹ 3,573 crore and
accounted for 23 per cent of Total Fee Income in the year ended
March 31, 2022, compared with 22 per cent in the preceding year.
Life Insurance
The open architecture adopted by your Bank for insurance
distribution with eight insurers was made more robust through
enhancements in digital journeys and product innovation with all
the partners. End- to-end solicitation journey for all the products
offered is now seamlessly integrated between the Bank and
insurance partners. More than 50 products are available for
solicitation on HDFC Bank NetBanking platform - which now
contributes almost 50 per cent of the total policies. Premium
mobilisation in Life Insurance for the year ended March 31, 2022
was ₹ 6,819 crore.
Non-Life Insurance
In the Non-Life insurance space, your Bank along with its
insurance partners, introduced new and innovative products
and increased customer offerings with an objective of providing
wider health insurance coverage during the pandemic. All the
products offered are enabled through NetBanking and tele-
sales platforms. Employees across channels have been trained
on the new products and processes. Manpower has been
strengthened across Non-Life insurers to increase our business
in the health insurance space keeping the customer requirement
in mind. Premium mobilisation in General and Health Insurance
stood at ₹ 2,270 crore as of March 31, 2022.
Mutual Funds
Your Bank adopts an open architecture in Mutual Funds
distribution as well and distributes funds of 35 Asset Management
Companies (AMCs) with continued focus on digital journeys
which enables customers to register for an online Investment
Services Account (ISA); 85 per cent of ISAs are now opened
through digital mediums. AUM of the Bank grew by 22.7 per cent
to ₹ 92,479 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.
Wealth
The Private Banking Group was rebranded as HDFC Bank
Wealth with a focussed strategy to reach out to Super Affluent
and Mass Affluent Customers in B30 cities in addition to the
138