Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
TCFD disclosures
HDFC Bank recognises the growing concerns of regulators, investors and clients
about climate risks that businesses, particularly banks and financial institutions,
face. This is our second year of working on the recommendations of the Task
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) - which provides a useful
framework for identifying climate-related risks and opportunities, evaluating
effective responses and communicating crucial information to stakeholders.
Governance
We have a strong Risk Management Group (RMG) at the
Bank that oversees putting the Board's risk strategy into
action, as well as designing procedures and systems for
detecting, measuring, monitoring, assessing and managing
risks. The RMG is led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), who
is responsible for risk management and the entire risk
architecture and framework of the Bank including stress
testing. The Chief Information Security Officer reports on
the Bank's cyber-security concerns as well as updates from
Business Impact Analysis and Disaster Response.
The Group Head for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
& ESG updates the CSR & ESG committee of the Board,
every quarter on the Bank's sustainability (ESG) initiatives
and progress on ESG actionables and chairs the ESG apex
committee. The ESG apex committee governs and reviews
the progress of the three action committees that drive the
ESG agenda (including climate change) at the Bank.
The Product Responsibility sub-committee, examines
Environmental & Social (E&S) risks in our operations,
including climate risks, while finding new business
opportunities in the E&S arena. The Environment sub-
committee comprises of representatives from the
Administration, Infrastructure and IT teams at the Bank, sets
targets and identifies opportunities for improvement in areas
of emissions, energy, water, and waste. This committee
will continue to drive the Bank's path towards achieving
carbon neutrality. The Bank has a dedicated ESG vertical
that works in conjunction with several internal and external
stakeholders, to drive the ESG agenda.
Credit managers assess environmental risks arising from
large loans through the SEMS framework.
ESG & CSR Committee
of the Board
ESG Apex Committee
Environment
Committee
Social &
Governance
Committee
Product
Responsibility
Committee
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
71