Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
I am happy to inform you that thanks to the progress we
have made on our technology investments, processes and
governance, the regulatory actions have been fully lifted. We
converted the challenge into an opportunity and have made
substantial strides in the way we evaluate, manage and
operationalise our technology. To enable the infusion of a
modern technology platform one needs to lay a very strong
foundation and we have done that over the last one year,
through a series of technology-led initiatives that include
i) changes at the foundational level ii) creating new digital
solutions iii) modernising the core.
i)
At the foundational level, we have
A.
Shifted our primary data centres to state-of-the-
art brand-new facilities in Mumbai and Bengaluru,
to support higher uptimes and create a robust IT
backbone for our operations.
B. A clearly defined capacity monitoring programme to
proactively manage capacity upgrades across all key
applications.
C.
A technology obsolescence programme management
office to plan and replace obsolescent components.
D. Started putting in place next-gen disaster recovery (DR)
set up for key applications.
E.
Implemented landing zone architecture to leverage the
cloud resilience, with elastic scalability, and at the same
time have control over ecosystem on cloud.
F.
Implemented a new Application Programming Interface
(API) gateway and a new API development framework.
G.
Kick-started modernisation of our data warehouse
with a cloud-enabled data lake platform, that would
enable us to leverage AI/ML models and new age deep
learning capabilities on the rich data set that we have.
ii) Creating new age solutions through Digital
Factory
A.
Rebuilding of our acquisition journeys in partnership
with a global technology leader in user experience. We
have already built 10 new journeys and will be rapidly
rolling out new journeys every 3 weeks. This includes
journeys across account opening, loans and cards,
covering both individual/MSME customers and both
existing and new-to-bank customers.
B.
We have launched 'Xpress Car Loans' - an end-to-end
digital car loan journey for existing customers as well as
non-customers, that allows them to avail disbursement
in 30 mins, with credit decisions based on speedy
data analysis. This is a first in the Indian industry and
the Bank has integrated its lending application with
automobile dealers across the country.
C.
In the next few quarters, we will launch more of our
products and services under Digital 2.0 including
a new payments platform for our customers,
payments platform for our merchants and a
wealth platform - all in partnerships with new age
tech companies.
iii) Modernising the core
The digital partnership strategy will help us to modernise
existing experiences quickly without changing the legacy
core. It is imperative that the Bank has a long-term vision on
revamping its core banking and mobile channel experiences.
Toward this we have created our 'Enterprise Factory'
wherein the Bank's tech and digital teams work in a new
age start-up like environment and co-create deep tech IP
capabilities. This is a departure from the past where our
technology IP was largely partner-owned and enabled. We
believe that as banks become more digital, they also need
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
11