External Environment
Climate change
and ESG
Climate change has emerged as an
overarching concern, enveloping all
aspects of humanity.
Naturally, this concerns the financial
sector too. With the disruptive impact of
climate-related events already evident,
there is a worldwide movement to embed
sustainability practices in business
operations across Environmental, Social
and Governance (ESG) aspects. The
financial services industry is expected to
factor ESG and climate-related physical
and transition risks in decision-making.
Further, India reiterated its commitment
to climate action at the United Climate
Change Conference (COP26) in
November 2021 at Glasgow. In line with
this, the RBI published a statement to
support the greening of India's financial
system. This may significantly impact the
policies and processes of the financial
services industry.
Our response
We have a comprehensive ESG
framework to address and mitigate
climate-related and other ESG risks.
It consists of a robust governance
structure that ensures oversight
over ESG matters at the highest
level. We have made progress on
energy consumption, emissions
and tree plantation initiatives
and aim to stay the course in
the coming years. In FY22, we
pledged to become carbon neutral
by FY32 and are putting in place
an implementation framework to
achieve carbon neutrality. We are
also in the process of adopting
a broad range of technological
solutions and operational measures
to reduce energy consumption at
our operating locations.
Evaluation of environmental and social
risks is an integral part of our overall
credit appraisal and approval process.
Large industrial/infrastructure projects
that require long-term financing
(greater than ₹100 Million and longer
than 5 years) are covered under our
Social & Environment Monitoring
System (SEMS). SEMS necessitates an
assessment of Environmental, Health,
Social and Safety risks in addition
to other risks as part of the overall
credit appraisal process. Further,
we continue to invest in renewable
energy and energy efficiency projects
to lower our carbon footprint. We also
encourage customers to make 'green
banking' choices.
Data privacy and
cyber security
The exponential growth of digitisation
and technological transformation
in financial services has escalated
cyber security risk and data privacy
concerns. There is a growing
regulatory focus on safe practices and
stringent polices within organisations
to ensure that customer interest is
safeguarded. With the advent of open
banking, ecosystem banking, digital
payments and lending, the importance
of having a robust IT infrastructure with
resilient systems and stringent policies
cannot be over-emphasised.
Information
Security Group
FORMED TO ADDRESS ISSUES RELATED TO DATA
PRIVACY AND CYBER SECURITY
Our response
We have a dedicated Information
Security Group headed by the Chief
Information Security Officer and
an Information Security Committee
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer for
exercising governance over these
matters. We have devised and
implemented data privacy policies
with respect to customer data which
includes usage of the Bank's digital
platforms. We are committed towards
protecting privacy of our customer's
personal data. Our Data Privacy
program provides a common set of
requirements for processing personal
data within Bank. Through our Privacy
Notices, we attempt to explain in a
transparent way how and why we
collect, store and use personal data;
how it might be shared, and legal
grounds for processing personal data.
We have stringent policies and
processes in place to ensure
information and cyber security.
We undertake routine vulnerability
assessments that include patch
management, penetration testing and
network security processes to ensure
a robust system and IT infrastructure.
We have implemented 24x7
defacement monitoring and
vulnerability management of the
Bank's internet properties. This
minimises the surface area for cyber
security attacks. Further Security
Orchestration, Automation & Response
(SOAR) is being used to reduce the
incident response time by connecting
security solutions with each other and
automating the incident lifecycle.
44