Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Sr. No.
Subject
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
(e) (ii)
Total amount of reductions during the
financial year due to ex-post explicit
adjustments
Nil
Nil
(e) (iii)
Total amount of reductions during the
financial year due to ex-post implicit
adjustments
Nil
Nil
(f)
Number of MRTs (Material Risk Takers)
identified.
79
78
(g) (i)
Number of cases where Malus has been
exercised.
None
None
(g) (ii)
Number of cases where Clawback has
been exercised.
None
None
(g) (iii)
Number of cases where both Malus and
Clawback have been exercised.
None
None
General
Quantitative (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation
Disclosure of the pay of each of its WTDs from the
The mean pay for the bank as a whole
mean pay.
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole
is ₹ 0.07 crore as of March 31, 2022.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the
managing director to the mean pay
of the Bank as a whole is 94:1 as of
March 31, 2022.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the other
whole time director to the mean pay
of the Bank as a whole is 87:1 as of
March 31, 2022.
The mean pay for the Bank as a whole
is ₹ 0.07 crore as of March 31, 2021.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the
managing director to the mean pay
of the Bank as a whole is 90:1 as of
March 31, 2021.
The ratio of the fixed pay of the other
whole time director to the mean pay
of the Bank as a whole is 77:1 as of
March 31, 2021.
* Excludes gratuity benefits, since the same is computed at Bank level.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, Employee Stock Options are to be included as part of variable pay. The number of options reported as
1
part of deferred remuneration comprise of Employee Stock Options granted during the financial year 2021-22 (as part of non cash variable pay)
and are yet to be vested. The first pay out in line with the extant RBI guidelines came into force effective April 01, 2021.
26. Segment reporting
Business segments
Business segments have been identified and reported taking into account, the target customer profile, the nature of products
and services, the differing risks and returns, the organisation structure, the internal business reporting system and the guidelines
prescribed by RBI. The Bank operates in the following segments:
a) Treasury
The treasury segment primarily consists of net interest earnings from the Bank's investment portfolio, money market
borrowing and lending, gains or losses on investment operations and on account of trading in foreign exchange and
derivative contracts.
b)
Retail banking
The retail banking segment serves retail customers through the Bank's branch network and other channels. This segment
raises deposits from customers and provides loans and other services to customers with the help of specialist product
groups. Exposures are classified under retail banking taking into account the status of the borrower (orientation criterion),
the nature of product, granularity of the exposure and the quantum thereof.
Revenues of the retail banking segment are derived from interest earned on retail loans, interest earned from other
segments for surplus funds placed with those segments, subvention received from dealers and manufacturers, fees from
services rendered, foreign exchange earnings on retail products, etc. Expenses of this segment primarily comprise interest
expense on deposits, commission paid to retail assets sales agents, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating
the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses of
specialist product groups, processing units and support groups.
284