Directors' Report
the outages in the Bank's internet banking and payment
system on November 21, 2020 due to a power failure in
the primary data centre. RBI, vide above order, advised
the Bank (a) to stop all digital business generating activities
planned under its 'Digital 2.0' and proposed Business
generating applications digital also imposed restrictions
and (b) to stop sourcing of new credit card customers.
The Bank has initiated remedial activities including fixing
of staff accountability and the same were communicated
to the RBI. Basis the Bank's submission, RBI vide its letter
dated August 17, 2021, has relaxed the restriction placed
on sourcing of new credit cards customers and further vide
its letter dated March 11, 2022 has lifted the restrictions on
the business generating activities planned under the Bank's
Digital 2.0 program.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
In compliance with Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013,
Mrs. Renu Karnad will retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual
General Meeting and is eligible for re-appointment. A resolution
seeking shareholders' approval for her re-appointment forms
a part of the Notice of this AGM. A brief resume is furnished
in the report on Corporate Governance for the information
of shareholders.
During the year, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was appointed as the
Part-time Chairman and Independent Director on the Board of
the Bank with effect from May 5, 2021 and Mrs. Lily Vadera was
appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of the Bank
with effect from November 26, 2021.
Further, Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as
Non- Executive (Non-Independent) Director of the Bank, effective
from February 18, 2022, citing potential future transactions/
arrangements which may materialize between the Bank and a
company in which Mr. Nadhamuni may be interested. Your Board
places on record its sincere appreciation for the contribution
made by Mr. Nadhamuni during his tenure with the Bank and
wishes him well in future endeavours.
Further, at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on
April 16, 2022, Mrs. Renu Karnad has been re-appointed as
the Non-Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development
Finance Corporation Limited, promoter of the Bank) on the
Board of the Bank, for a period of five (5) years with effect from
September 3, 2022, subject to the approval of the shareholders
at the ensuing AGM.
During the financial year 2021-22, there have been no changes
in the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank other
than the above.
Particulars of Employees
The information in terms of Section 197(12) of the Act read with
Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is given in Annexure 5.
Further, the statement containing particulars of employees as
required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013
read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is given
in an Annexure and forms part of this report. In terms of Section
136(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, the annual report and the
financial statements are being sent to the Members excluding
the aforesaid Annexure. The Annexure is available for inspection
and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the Annexure
may write to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption
Please refer to page no. 58 for information on Conservation of
Energy and page no. 143 for information on Technology Absorption.
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
During the year, the total foreign exchange earned by the
Bank was ₹ 3,907.9 crore (on account of net gains arising on
all exchange / derivative transactions) and the total foreign
exchange outgo was ₹ 2,248.3 crore towards the operating and
capital expenditure requirements.
Secretarial Audit
In terms of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the
Rules made thereunder, M/s. Alwyn Jay & Co., Company
Secretaries were appointed as Secretarial Auditors of the Bank
for the financial year 2021-22. The report of the Secretarial
Auditors is enclosed as Annexure 6 to this Report. There are
no observations/ qualifications/ comments in the Report of the
Secretarial Auditor.
Corporate Governance
In compliance with Regulation 34 and other applicable provisions
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a separate
report on Corporate Governance along with a certificate of
compliance from the Secretarial Auditors, forms an integral part
of this Report.
158