Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
STAKEHOLDERS' RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of
Reference / Roles and
Responsibilities:
The Committee approves and monitors transfer, transmission, splitting and consolidation of shares and considers
requests for dematerialization of shares. Allotment of shares to the employees on exercise of stock options granted
under the various Employees Stock Option Schemes which are made in terms of the powers delegated by the Board
in this regard, are placed before the Committee for ratification. The Committee also monitors redressal of grievances
from shareholders relating to transfer of shares, non-receipt of Annual Report, dividends, etc.
The Committee shall oversee the various aspects of interests of all stakeholders including shareholders and other
security holders.
The powers to approve share transfers and dematerialization requests have been delegated to executives of the
Bank to avoid delays that may arise due to non-availability of the members of the Committee. Mr. Santosh Haldankar,
Company Secretary of the Bank is the Compliance Officer responsible for expediting the share transfer/transmission/
deletion formalities.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank received 82 complaints from the shareholders. The Bank had
attended to all the complaints except 1 complaint which was pending as was received during the end of quarter. This
complaint was responded and was closed subsequently, all other complaints were closed to the satisfaction of the
shareholder as on March 31, 2022.
Besides, 2,308 letters were received from the shareholders relating to change of address, nomination requests,
updation of email IDs and PAN No(s), updation of complete bank account details viz. Core Banking account no.,
IFSC and / MICR code, Mandate for crediting dividend by National Automated Clearing House (NACH) and National
Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), Issuance of Duplicate Share Certificate and claim of shares from Unclaimed Suspense
account queries relating to the annual reports, non-receipt of share certificate upon sub-division of Bank's shares from
the face value of ₹ 2/- each to the face value of ₹ 1/- each, amalgamation, request for re-validation of dividend warrants
and various other investor related matters. These letters have also been responded to.
Composition:
Mr. Malay Patel (Chairman), Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi, Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Kaizad
Bharucha and Mrs. Lily Vadera
Details of re-constitution:
. Mr. Malay Patel was appointed as the Chairman and Mr. Kaizad Bharucha was inducted as a member of the
Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
. Mrs. Lily Vadera was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from June 10, 2022.
Meetings:
The Committee met four (4) times during the year on:
April 9, 2021, July 13, 2021, October 18, 2021 and January 12, 2022.
RISK POLICY & MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of
Reference / Roles and
Responsibilities:
The Risk Policy & Monitoring Committee (RPMC) has been formed as per the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India on
Asset Liability Management / Risk Management Systems. The RPMC is a Board level committee, which supports the
Board by supervising the implementation of the risk strategy. It guides the development of policies, procedures and
systems for managing risk. It ensures that these are adequate and appropriate to changing business conditions, the
structure and needs of the Bank and the risk appetite of the Bank.
The RPMC monitors the compliance of risk parameters/aggregate exposures with the appetite set by the Board. It
ensures that frameworks are established for assessing and managing various risks faced by the Bank, systems are
developed to relate risk to the Bank's capital level and methods are in place for monitoring compliance with internal
risk management policies and processes. The Committee ensures that the Bank has a suitable framework for Risk
Management and oversees the implementation of the risk management policy.
Further, the functions of the Committee also include review of the enterprise-wide risk frameworks viz. Risk
Appetite framework (RAF), Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), stress testing framework, etc.
The Committee also reviews the cyber security framework in the Bank from time to time.
Further, as per RBI guidelines, the Chief Risk Officer of the Bank regularly interacts with the members of the Committee
without the presence of management at the meetings of the Committee.
Composition:
Mrs. Lily Vadera (Chairperson), Mr. Sandeep Parekh, Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mrs. Renu Karnad, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan,
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty.
Details of re-constitution:
. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from June 9, 2021.
. Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a Chairman and member of the Committee with effect from September 17,
2021.
. Mr. Sandeep Parekh was inducted as a member of the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
. Mrs. Lily Vadera was inducted as Chairperson and member of the Committee with effect from January 15, 2022.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 375