Message from the MD & CEO
to have in-house foundational technology capabilities to
compete with neo-techs. Toward this, the Bank has started
two very strategic initiatives:
A. 'Hollow the Core' Strategy - The Bank, in partnership
with a new age start-up (with deep experience in
core banking technology), is co-creating new core
banking modules. This project will enable the moving
out of payments module from existing core banking
platform and help in creating a fully resilient active-
active payments architecture that will ensure minimal
payments downtime, even if core banking is not
available. This 15-month project will be followed by
hollowing the customer master modules from its
existing core systems and will ensure a single system of
record for customers across various products.
B.
Rewrite Mobile and NetBanking Applications - The
Bank has set up a new centre in Bengaluru and the
team here is re-writing the Mobile and NetBanking
platforms. The entire project will be completed in a
2-year time frame and will allow the Bank to own a
modern cloud enabled Mobile/NetBanking platform.
Enabling a new age experience for customers, we will
roll out new features every 3 to 4 weeks, in line with
digital fintech companies.
To summarise, our entire technology and digital strategy
adopts a 360-degree approach that ensures resilience and
modernisation of existing legacy systems and enables new
age consumer experiences by partnering with modern neo-
techs. We have made rapid strides in creating the foundation
and enabling new digital assets over the last one year.
Needless to say, the pace will only pick up from here. Firmly
committed to this transformation, the Bank will continue to
invest in modern technology and talent.
Customer Centricity
Customer focus has been a core value for years and
maintaining the highest possible standards in customer
service has been the key to our success.
We are institutionalising a Service First culture at the Bank.
Service First for us means respecting every customer and
addressing their enquiries or complaints on time/every
time, and working on the issues raised for a permanent fix.
Service First for us is a commitment right from me and my
colleagues to put a smile on our customers' faces.
We have a two-pronged approach to achieve this. First, a
culture of evangelisation right from the top and sensitising
all our colleagues to be at the forefront of solving customer
issues. Second, a strong measurement metric to be in place
to continuously know that we are progressing in the right
direction.
We have invested in tools and technology to ensure that
some of the issues that customers face do not arise at all.
For example, our MobileBanking app has been upgraded
with wrapper technology that prevents fraudsters from
reading OTPs, thereby preventing frauds and related
complaints.
A strong bottom-up Net Promoter System (NPS) programme
('Infinite Smiles') covers customer interactions across all
products/services and delivery channels. We actively poll
our customers after their interactions with the Bank (>63
Million customers polled during the financial year), listen
to their feedback, and engage with them if we have not
been up to the mark. I am happy to state that we lead the
overall NPS ranking among 20+ competitors in the banking
category, based on a competitive benchmarking study
of NPS, which was done by an industry-leading
consultancy firm.
Our performance on complaints resolution has also
improved markedly during the year with significantly reduced
customer complaints in the Credit Cards, Debit Cards,
Operations and Collections front (complaints reduced by
21%). We are not complacent about the progress and are
being conscious and mindful of much more that needs
to improve. We are working on several strategic initiatives
(like the wrapper technology I mentioned earlier) to tackle
complaints pertaining to 'Disputed Transactions' (where the
customer succumbs to phishing attacks by fraudsters).
As part of our technology transformation agenda, we are
also investing in an omni-channel customer experience
platform. This will enable our customers to reach out to us
through their preferred channel for service i.e., social, email,
texts, voice, etc. It would also provide us a single source of
customer truth across channels and would enable our front-
line staff to solve customer queries and act on customer
instructions in a straight through manner. This capability
will improve our customer responsiveness and NPS. We
are already live with our social media and email interactions
on this platform and will add other channels of customer
interactions during the course of this year.
Customer delight is a non-negotiable goal towards which we
will continue to work.
12