Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
Responsibilities of Management and Those charged with Governance for Standalone Financial
Statements
The Bank's Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation
of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance and cash
flows of the Bank in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards
specified under Section 133 of the Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and circulars, guidelines and directions issued by the
RBI from time to time (the "RBI Guidelines") as applicable to the Bank. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making
judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant
to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Bank's ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank's financial reporting process.
Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout
the audit. We also:
· Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
· Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Bank
has internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of
such controls.
· Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by the Management of the Bank.
· Conclude on the appropriateness of Management's use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
Bank's ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention
in our Auditor's report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. However,
future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern.
· Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
fair presentation.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 215