Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
k)
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Merchant
Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
l) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign
Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019
(vi) Other specific business/industry related laws applicable
to the Bank - The Bank has complied with the provisions
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Master Circulars,
Notifications and Guidelines and other directions pertaining
to commercial banking issued by Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) from time to time. Further, the Bank has complied with
other applicable general business laws, rules, regulations
and guidelines.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses
of the following:
i. Secretarial Standards with regard to Meeting of Board of
Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SS-2) issued by The
Institute of Company Secretaries of India; and
ii.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review, the Bank has complied with
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines and
Standards mentioned above subject to the following observations:
1. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has imposed, by an order dated
May 27, 2021 (as received by the Bank on May 28, 2021), a
monetary penalty of ₹10.00 crore (Rupees ten crore only)
on HDFC Bank Limited ('Bank'). As per the said order, the
penalty has been imposed in exercise of powers vested
in RBI under the provisions of Section 47A(1)(c) read with
Section 46(4)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (Act),
for marketing / sale of third party non-financial products
in contravention of provisions of Section 6(2) and Section
8 of the Act. The Bank has discontinued the sale of said
third-party non-financial product since October, 2019. The
penalty was paid by the Bank.
2.
SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying a
penalty of ₹ 1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of invocation
of securities pledged by BMA Wealth Creators (BRH Wealth
Kreators) for availing credit facilities. SEBI has also directed
the Bank to transfer sale proceeds of Rs.158.68 crores
on invocation of securities, along with interest to escrow
account with a nationalised bank by marking lien in favour
of SEBI. The Bank had challenged SEBI's order before
Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) and SAT, vide its interim
order, have stayed operation of SEBI's order. SAT, vide its
final order dated February 18, 2022, allowed the Bank's
appeal and quashed SEBI's Order.
3.
RBI, vide its order dated December 02, 2020 with regard
to on certain incidents of outages in the internet banking
/ mobile banking / payment utilities of the Bank over the
past 2 years, had advised the Bank (a) to stop all digital
business generating activities planned under its 'Digital
2.0' and proposed Business generating applications digital
also imposed restrictions and (b) to stop sourcing of new
credit card customers with regard to on certain incidents of
outages in the internet banking / mobile banking / payment
utilities of the Bank over the past 2 years. Further, basis
the Bank's submission, RBI vide its letter dated August
17, 2021, have relaxed the restriction placed on sourcing
of new credit cards customers and further vide its letter
dated March 11, 2022 have lifted the restrictions on the
business generating activities planned under the Bank's
Digital 2.0 program.
We further report that:
(a) The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted with
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive
Directors and Independent Directors.
(b) The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors
that took place during the period under review were carried
out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
(c)
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the
Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda
were sent in advance as prescribed under the applicable
Secretarial Standards, and a system exists for seeking
and obtaining further information and clarifications on
the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful
participation at the meeting.
(d)
The minutes of the Board meetings and Committee
Meetings have not identified any dissent by members of
the Board /Committee of the Board respectively hence we
have no reason to believe that the decisions by the Board
were not approved by all the directors/members present.
We further report that, there are adequate systems and
processes in the Bank commensurate with the size and operations
of the Bank to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable
laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. As informed, the Bank
has responded appropriately to communication received from
various statutory / regulatory authorities including initiating
actions for corrective measures, wherever found necessary.
We further report that during the audit period the following
events / actions have taken place, having a major bearing on
the Bank's affairs in pursuance of the above referred laws, rules,
regulations, guidelines and standards:
1. The Bank has raised U.S.$ 1,000,000,000 (U.S.$ One
Billion) by the issue and allotment of Direct, Subordinated,
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 209