Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
4. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2021-22
(Current Financial
Year)
FY 2020-21
(Previous Financial
Year)
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG
into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if
available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
42,697
9,174.35
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of
turnover
Gram per CO2 per rupee
income
0.03
0.01
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) - the
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
tCO2/FTE
0.3
0.08
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency?
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
> Please refer 'About the Report' section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
5. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention
and remediation activities.
> Given the nature of our business, we do not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity. However we do ensure that
the large industrial, infrastructure projects we lend to, are compliant to all environmental regulations, including those linked
to biodiversity. Please refer to 'Responsible Lending in the section on 'Environment' in the Integrated Report for FY 22.
6. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of
the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sr. No Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided
along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
Please refer Managing waste
details in the 'Environment'
section in the Integrated Report
for FY22.
7. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
> Yes, please refer to the 'Business Continuity Plan' section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
8. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
> Please refer to the Responsible lending details of the 'Environment' section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
9. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for
environmental impacts.
> Please refer to the Responsible lending details of the 'Environment' section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a
manner that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations: 1
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
419