Directors' Report
However, recent geopolitical tensions do present some
headwinds for the growth outlook. Higher crude oil prices and
resulting higher fuel and transportation costs are likely to weigh
on private consumption. In addition, higher input costs are likely
to put stress on profit margins and could slow down the recovery
in the private capex cycle. Moreover, lower global growth (due
to a slowdown in China and geopolitical tensions) could have a
bearing on India's export demand. The International Monetary
Fund expects the world economy to grow at a slower pace of 3.6
per cent in 2022 from 6.1 per cent in 2021. On balance, India's
GDP growth is expected to rise by 7.3 per cent in FY 2022-23,
making it the fastest growing economy in the world. External
stability related indicators (short-term debt, Forex reserves, FDI
flows) show that India is better positioned than the 2013 taper
tantrum episode to withstand shocks.
Besides growth, geopolitical tensions and lingering supply side
disruptions are likely to weigh on domestic retail inflation as well.
CPI headline inflation rose to an 8-year high of 7.8 per cent in
April-22 (vs. 6.95 per cent in March-22) led by a broad-based
increase in food prices, which rose to a 17-month high, fuel and
core inflation (CPI excluding food and fuel). Core inflation rose
to around 8-year high of 7.0 per cent in Apr-22. Going forward,
CPI inflation is expected to average at 7.3 per cent in H1 FY23
and ease to 6.2 per cent in H2 FY23 assuming crude oil prices
average at USD 105 pbl in FY23. For the full FY23, CPI infation
is expected to average at 6.7 per cent, assuming a normal
monsoon, some moderation in global commodity prices in H2,
and elevated services inflation. Support from recently announced
excise duty cuts on petrol and diesel is likely to be offset by some
pass through of high crude oil prices to pump prices by Oil
Marketing Companies to cover up their under recoveries.
To rein in elevated inflation amid Russia-Ukraine crisis, the RBI
raised rate by 40 bps in an off-cycle meeting on 4th May 2022
and delivered another rate hike of 50 bps in its June 2022 policy,
taking the repo rate to 4.9%. The central bank justified its rate
action as a step to control the second-round impact of inflationary
pressures and an effort to anchor inflation expectations. The RBI
raised its inflation forecast by 100 bps to 6.7% for FY23. On the
liquidity front, the central bank reiterated that it would provide
enough liquidity in the system --- balancing any change due to
its FX operations, Government spending or seasonality - in a
manner that the normalization is non-disruptive for growth. The
average liquidity in the system as of May 2022 stood at INR 5.2
lakh crore. The MPC voted to remain focused on withdrawal
of accommodation in a calibrated fashion to ensure inflation
remains within the RBI's upper band while supporting growth.
The RBI dropped the phrase "remain accommodative" from
its stance. RBI's concern about the broad-based nature of the
increase in inflation and the risk of the second-round impact on
inflation expectations makes a case for an aggressive path by the
central bank going forward. The policy rate is likely to be raised
well beyond the pre-pandemic level, close to 5.75-6% by fiscal
year-end. (HDFC Bank expectations).
Overall, the Indian economy recovered from the impact of the
pandemic in FY 2021-22 and is estimated to be the fastest
growing economy in the world in FY 2022-23. Though there are
new headwinds that could cloud the economic outlook, India is
better positioned (as gauged by external indicators) to withstand
extreme volatile episodes/shocks.
Financial Performance
The financial performance of your Bank during the year ended
March 31, 2022, remained healthy with Total Net Revenue
(Net Interest Income plus Other Income) rising 12.7 per cent
to ₹ 101,519.5 crore from ₹ 90,084.5 crore in the previous year.
Revenue growth was driven by an increase in both Net Interest
Income and Other Income. Net Interest Income grew by 11.0
per cent to ₹ 72,009.6 crore coupled with a Net Interest Margin
(NIM) of 4.0 per cent.
TOTAL NET REVENUE
1
12.7 per cent growth
Other Income grew by 17.1 per cent to ₹ 29,509.9 crore. The
largest component was Fees and Commissions at ₹ 19,536.6
crore. Gain on Revaluation and Sale of Investments was
₹ 2,282.6 crore. Foreign Exchange and Derivatives Revenue
was ₹ 3,907.9 crore, and recoveries from written-off accounts
were ₹ 2,765.1 crore.
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-
wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19
cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was
an improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal
2021. Since then, India experienced two waves of the COVID-19
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants,
leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which were
subsequently lifted. The impact of COVID-19, including changes
in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions
on business and individual activities, led to significant volatility in
global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in
global and local economic activities. The disruptions following
the outbreak impacted loan originations, the sale of third-party
products, the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the
efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer
defaults and consequent increase in provisions there against.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent
to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the Bank's
results will depend on ongoing as well as future developments,
including, among other things, any new information concerning
the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain
its spread or mitigate its impact whether Government-mandated
or elected by us.
136