Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Related Party Transactions
During the year, the Bank has entered into transactions with the
related parties in the ordinary course of business. The Bank has
not entered into any materially significant transactions with the
related parties, which could lead to a potential conflict of interest
between the Bank and these parties. Transactions with related
parties were placed before the Audit Committee for approval.
There were no material transactions with related parties, which
were not in the ordinary course of business, nor were there any
material transactions, which were not at an arm's length basis.
The Shareholders of the Bank have approved the material related
party transactions to be entered into by the Bank in the F.Y.
2022-23 through Postal Ballot on March 27, 2022 as per SEBI
Listing Regulations.
Details of related party transactions entered into during the year
ended March 31, 2022 are given in, Note No. 28 in Schedule
18, forming part of 'Notes to Accounts' in accordance with
Accounting Standard (AS) - 18.
The Bank has put in place a policy to deal with related party
transactions and the same has been uploaded on the Bank's
web-site at https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/
corporate-governance/codes-and-policies
Commodity Price Risks and Foreign Exchange
Risks and Hedging activities
Being in the business of banking, as per the extant regulations,
the Bank does not deal in any commodity, though, it can be
exposed to the commodity price risks in its capacity as lender /
banker to its customers. Currently, the Bank has open exposure
in Precious Metals i.e, Gold / Silver and such open exposures in
Gold / Silver are primarily on account of positions created from
short term deposits under the Gold Monetisation Scheme (GMS)
raised from Customers and trading positions in Gold / Silver.
These positions are managed similar to other foreign exchange
exposures using spot, outright forwards and swap transactions
in Gold/Silver and monitored as part of the trading portfolio within
the stipulated trading risk limits viz. Net overnight open position
limit, Intraday open position limit, Value-at-Risk limit, Stop Loss
Trigger Level etc. that are defined in the Treasury Limits Package.
In addition, Bank is authorized by Reserve Bank of India to
import gold and silver and the exposure arising out of import
of gold and silver on consignment basis is covered on back to
back basis. The spot, forward and swap contracts, outstanding
as on the Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued
at the closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified by
FEDAI (Foreign Exchange Dealers' Association of India) and at
interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities. The USD/
INR rate for valuation of contracts having longer maturities i.e.
greater than one (1) year is implied from the applicable INR and
USD swap curves. For other pairs, where the rates / tenors
are not published by FEDAI, the spot and forward points are
obtained from Refinitiv or Bloomberg for valuation of the foreign
exchange deals. The foreign exchange profit or loss is arrived on
present value basis thereafter, as directed by FEDAI, whereby the
forward profits or losses on the deals, as computed above, are
discounted till the valuation date using the applicable discounting
yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation is recognized in
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Given below are the exposure details of the Bank under the Gold
Monetisation Scheme deposits as of March 31, 2022.
Total open exposure of the Bank to commodities i.e. Gold (in
INR) as on March 31, 2022: Nil
Note: As part of trading position in Gold, the Treasury Gold Desk
has open position in Gold of 219.74 ounce, which is equivalent
to ₹ 32,112,061.92 as on March 31, 2022, and was within the
NOOP limit prescribed for XAU.
Accounting Treatment
The financial statements have been prepared and presented
under the historical cost convention and accrual basis of
accounting, unless otherwise stated and are in accordance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India ('GAAP'),
statutory requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, circulars and guidelines
issued by the Reserve Bank of India ('RBI') from time to time
(RBI guidelines), Accounting Standards ('AS') specified under
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as they apply
to banks.
Credit Ratings
The details of all credit ratings obtained by the Bank for all debt
instruments are furnished in the Directors' Report which may
be referred to.
Whistle Blower Policy / Vigil Mechanism
The details of establishment of whistle blower policy / vigil
mechanism are furnished in the Directors' Report which may
be referred to. None of the Bank's personnel have been denied
access to the Audit Committee.
Appointment / Resignation of Director
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was appointed as an Independent
Director of the Bank for a period of five (5) consecutive years with
effect from March 30, 2021 and Mr. Atanu Chakraborty was also
appointed as the Part-time Chairman and Independent Director
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 383