Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
amendments recommended by the RBI are under consideration by the Government of India. Accordingly, the RBI, through
its circular dated March 22, 2019, deferred the implementation of IND-AS until further notice.
The Bank, being an associate of Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited (the 'Corporation'), submits its consolidated
financial information ('fit for consolidation information'), prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement
principles of IND-AS as specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, to the Corporation for the purposes of
the consolidated financial statements / results of the Corporation. The results of the Bank upon its first time adoption of and
transition to IND-AS, based on the updated regulations and accounting standards / guidance and business strategy at the
date of actual transition, could differ from those reported in the fit for consolidation information.
40. COVID-19
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was an
improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal 2021. Since then India experienced two waves of the COVID-19
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants, leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which
were subsequently lifted.
The impact of COVID-19, including changes in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions on business
and individual activities, led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in global and
local economic activities. The disruptions following the outbreak, impacted loan originations, the sale of third party products,
the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer defaults
and consequent increase in provisions there against.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the Bank's results
will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, including, among other things, any new information concerning the
severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain its spread or mitigate its impact whether government mandated
or elected by us.
41. Refund / Adjustment of 'interest on interest'
In accordance with the instructions in the paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021, the Bank refunded / adjusted
'interest on interest' of ₹ 268.09 crore to all eligible borrowers during the year ended March 31, 2022.
42. Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities with
permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. Similarly,
the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security
or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents.
296