Directors' Report
Given below is a detailed explanation under four different
heads: Framework and Process, Internal Control, Information
Technology and Security Practices and Fraud Monitoring
and Control.
a. Framework and Process
To manage Operational Risks, your Bank has in place a
comprehensive Operational Risk Management Framework,
whose implementation is supervised by the Operational Risk
Management Committee (ORMC) and reviewed by the RPMC
of the Board. An independent Operational Risk Management
Department (ORMD) implements the framework. Under the
framework, the Bank has three lines of defence. The first line of
defence is the business line (including support and operations).
The first line is primarily responsible for developing risk mitigation
strategies in managing operational risk for their respective units.
The second line of defence is the ORMD, which is responsible
for implementing the operational risk management framework
across the Bank. It designs and develops tools required for
implementing the framework including policies and processes,
guidelines towards implementation and maintenance of the
framework. In order to achieve the aforesaid objective pertaining
to operational risk management framework, the ORMC guides
and oversees the functioning, implementation and maintenance
of operational risk management activities of Bank, with special
focus on:
路 Identification and assessment of risks across the Bank
through the Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) and
Scenario analysis
路 Measurement of Operational Risk based on the actual
loss data
路 Monitoring of risk through Key Risk Indicators (KRI)
路 Management and reporting through KRI, RCSA and loss
data of the Bank
Internal Audit is the third line of defence. The team reviews the
effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal
controls within your Bank.
b. Internal Control
Your Bank has implemented sound internal control practices
across all processes, units and functions. It has well laid down
policies and processes for the management of its day-to-
day activities. Your Bank follows established, well-designed
controls, which include traditional four eye principles, effective
segregation of business and support functions, segregation of
duties, call back processes, reconciliation, exception reporting
and periodic MIS. Specialised risk control units function in risk-
prone products/ functions to minimise operational risk. Controls
are tested as part of the SOX control testing framework.
c. Information Technology and Information
Security Practices
Your Bank operates in a highly automated environment and
makes use of the latest technologies available on cloud or on
Premises Data centres to support various business segments.
This results in various risks such as those associated with the
use, ownership, operation, involvement, influence, and adoption
of IT within an enterprise, as well as business disruption due
to technological failures. Additionally, it can lead to risks
related to information assets, data security, integrity, reliability
and availability, among others. Your Bank has put in place a
governance framework, information security practices and
business continuity plan to mitigate Information Technology &
Information Security-related risks.
The three lines of defence approach is adopted for enterprise-
wide Technology Risk management. The first line of defence
holds primary responsibility of managing the risk and ensuring
proper controls are in place.
The second line of defence defines policies, frameworks and
controls. Information Technology Risk and Information Security
Group addresses technology and information security related
risks. A well-documented Board-approved information security
policy and cyber security policy are in place. Your Bank has a
robust Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plan that is
periodically tested to ensure that it can meet any operational
contingencies. Further, there is a well-documented crisis
management plan in place to address the strategic issues of
a crisis impacting the Bank and to direct and communicate
the corporate response to the crisis including cyber crisis. In
addition, employees mandatorily and periodically undergo
information security training and sensitisation exercises.
For details on robust cyber security measures please refer page
no. 51.
An independent assurance team within Internal Audit acts as a
third line of defence that provides assurance on the management
of IT-related risks.
d. Fraud Monitoring and Control
Your Bank has put in place a Whistle Blower and Vigilance Policy
and a central vigilance team that oversees the implementation
of fraud prevention measures. Frauds are investigated to
identify the root cause and relevant corrective steps are taken
to prevent recurrence.
Fraud Monitoring committees at the senior management and
Board level also deliberate on material fraud events and advise
148