Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Employee Stock Option Plan
The Company has adopted fair value method for options
granted post March 31, 2021. All the options granted if any
prior to March 31, 2021 are valued at intrinsic value method.
Compensation cost is measured by the excess, if any, of
the fair value of the underlying stock over the exercise
price as determined under the option plan. The fair value
of options have been estimated on the dates of each grant
using the Black-Scholes model.
10
Debit and credit card reward points
HDFC Bank Limited
The Bank estimates the probable redemption of debit
and credit card reward points and cost per point using an
actuarial method by employing an independent actuary,
which includes assumptions such as mortality, redemption
and spends. Provisions for liabilities on the outstanding
reward points are made based on an independent actuarial
valuation as at the Balance Sheet date and included in
other liabilities and provisions.
11
Bullion
HDFC Bank Limited
The Bank imports bullion including precious metal bars on
a consignment basis. The imports are typically on a back-
to-back basis and are priced to the customer based on
the price quoted by the supplier. The difference between
the price recovered from customers and cost of bullion
is accounted at the time of sale to the customers and
reported as "Other Income".
The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending
basis and the interest thereon is accounted as interest
expense / income respectively.
12
Lease accounting
Lease payments including cost escalation for assets taken
on operating lease are recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account over the lease term on a straight-line basis in
accordance with the AS-19, Leases.
13
Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current tax provision (i.e.
the amount of tax for the period determined in accordance
with the Income Tax Act, 1961, the rules framed there
under and considering the material principles set out in
Income Computation and Disclosure Standards) and the
net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the
year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for
the future tax consequences of timing differences between
the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases, and operating loss carried forward,
if any. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates as at the
Balance Sheet date.
Current tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax assets
and liabilities are off-set when they relate to income taxes
levied by the same taxation authority, when the entity has
a legal right to off-set and when the entity intends to settle
on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent there
is reasonable certainty that the assets can be realised
in future. In case of unabsorbed depreciation or carried
forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are
recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation
of such assets. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each
Balance Sheet date and appropriately adjusted to reflect the
amount that is reasonably / virtually certain to be realised.
14
Earnings per share
The Group reports basic and diluted earnings per equity
share in accordance with AS-20, Earnings per Share. Basic
earnings per equity share has been computed by dividing
net profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders by
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding
for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential
dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to
issue equity shares were exercised or converted to equity
during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share are
computed using the weighted average number of equity
shares and the dilutive potential equity shares outstanding
during the period except where the results are anti-dilutive.
15
Share issue expenses
HDFC Bank Limited
Share issue expenses are adjusted against Share Premium
Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
16
Segment information
The disclosure relating to segment information is in
accordance with AS-17, Segment Reporting and as per
guidelines issued by RBI.
17
Accounting for provisions, contingent liabilities
and contingent assets
In accordance with AS-29, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities
and Contingent Assets, the Group recognises provisions
when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event,
it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation
and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation
can be made.
330