Environment
Strategy
The Bank has been reporting to the
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)
on its climate change strategy,
risks, opportunities, and emissions.
From the perspective of climate risk
assessment, we will assess the priority
of physical and transition risks in the
near to medium term. Some of the
critical parameters to consider would
be GHG emissions, air pollutants and
climate transition risk pathways both at
the sector and borrower level.
There are two main types of climate-
related risks:
1)
Physical risks (both acute
and chronic): Economic losses
(physical damage to property and
assets) from extreme weather
events (flood, cyclone, etc)
attributed to climate change; and
2)
Transition risks: Possible
process of adjustment to a low-
carbon economy and its effects
on the value of financial assets
and liabilities
We are exploring frameworks to model
and assess climate risks. We also
continue to acquire granular data
further corroborated by BRSR data
(FY23 onwards) and test tools for
climate risk assessment and conduct
scenario analysis through suitable
partnerships - including exploring
options to tie-up with data providers.
Given that climate risk is an emerging
and long-term risk for the Bank, we
will consider adopting a suitable
methodology/pathway to analyse the
Bank's exposures under different
climate scenarios.
Risk Management
Current
regulation
汽
Banks are highly regulated in the country and mandates as part
of current regulations are always integrated into the overall risk
planning and assessment process. Current regulations are also
factored in the credit assessment process, especially through
the SEMS framework which is used to screen large loans for
environmental and social risks.
Emerging
regulation
Transition risk can impact the Bank's credit portfolio resulting from
changes in the climate policy, technology, consumer, and market
sentiment during the transition to a low-carbon economy. This is
particularly relevant for policy changes that can result in loan defaults
from certain sectors like coal, thermal and infrastructure. We are
exploring techniques for developing climate risk assessment and
scenario analysis to analyse our portfolio at risk due to the transition
risk of climate change.
Technology
While our digital environment and information security standards
are the foundation of our business today, as financial services
professionals, we do not anticipate technology to have a significant
impact on climate risk. Our low-carbon digital banking products use
technology to enable business.
Legal
For large loans, we verify whether the project complies with all
applicable environmental rules, failing to do so could result in the
loan becoming a non-performing asset if the project goes into
litigation. This, however, is not a claim against the Bank. There are
no other circumstances in which the Bank can be held liable for a
climate-related lawsuit.
Market
In the context of climate change, markets could play a key role
in shifting the demand and supply for certain products like green
loans or bonds, or in low-carbon digital products. However, we do
recognise the relevance of change in consumer preferences, and
hence, the need to evaluate this risk, but do not have the tools
at present to quantify/include this as part of our risk assessment
process.
Reputation
Reputation risk from community/customer perception is a primary
risk to our business. We thus invest in community and customer
involvement through surveys to educate and enlighten them
on our environmental sustainability programmes. Further, ESG
performance measures are increasingly being used by the global
investor community, especially sovereign wealth funds and pension
funds, to assess long-term profitable growth. We strive to implement
environment-friendly measures throughout our operations. We
further show our commitment to ESG, particularly climate change,
by including ESG elements in regulatory reporting such as the
annual report. In addition, in our annual integrated report, we publish
details on our carbon emissions and footprint (third-party assured).
72