Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
None
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness
programmes held
Topics / principles covered
under the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by value
of business done with such partners) under the
awareness programmes
None
N.A.
N.A.
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No)
If Yes, provide details of the same.
> Yes. Please refer section on 'Corporate Governance' appended to this report (sub-section: Related Party Transactions).
PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the
entity, respectively.
Current Financial Year
Previous Financial Year
Details of improvements in
environmental and social impacts
R&D
Not applicable given the sector
N.A.
N.A.
Capex
Not Applicable being a financial
services sector
N.A.
N.A.
1. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing?
No, Being in the Financial Services sector, material purchase for operations is not significant except for paper. For
procurement of equipment, the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during the purchase
of electronic equipment such as computers, laptops, lighting devices, AC's etc.
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? N.A.
2. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
> Please refer 'Environment' section of the Integrated Report for FY 22.
3. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity's activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
> Not applicable
Leadership Indicators
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
> Not applicable
404