Directors' Report
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank held 95.96 per cent stake
in HSL.
HDB Financial Services Limited
Incorporated in 2007, HDB is a leading NBFC that caters to the
evolving needs of its customers by re-imagining opportunities
and fulfilling their aspirations. It has a strong network of over
1,374 branches spread across 989 cities/towns. HDB's net
interest income grew 9.4 per cent to ₹ 5,037.5 crore for the
year ended March 31, 2022, from ₹ 4,605.0 crore in the year
ended March 31, 2021. Profit for the year under review was
₹ 1,011.4 crore against ₹ 391.5 crore in the previous year. Its
Assets Under Management for the year ended March 31, 2022
stood at ₹ 61,444.3 crore compared to ₹ 61,560.7 crore in the
previous year.
HDB offers a comprehensive suite of products and service
offerings that are tailor-made to suit its customers' requirements,
including first-time borrowers and the under- served segments.
Products and Services
HDB is engaged in the business of Financing, fee-based
products and BPO services.
Financing: HDB offers a diverse range of product offerings
(secured and unsecured) to various customer segments. These
include Consumer Loans, Enterprise Loans, Asset Finance and
Micro-Lending.
Consumer Loans
Consumer loans are offered to customers to buy consumer
durables, lifestyle products and digital products. HDB also
provides personal and Gold loans to individuals for personal,
family or household purposes to meet their short or medium
term requirements. The Company also provides auto loans and
two-wheeler loans.
Enterprise Loans
HDB offers secured and unsecured loans designed for SMES,
including working capital and term loans.
Asset Finance
HDB offers loans for the purchase of new and used commercial
vehicles and construction equipment that generate income for
the borrowers. The customer base includes fleet owners, first
time users, first time borrowers and captive use buyers.
Micro Lending
HDB offers micro-loans to borrowers through the Joint Liability
Groups (JLGs) framework. With Micro-Lending, HDB endeavours
to empower and promote financial inclusion within these
sections, thus resulting in sustainable development of the nation.
Fee-based products/Insurance Services
HDB is a registered Corporate Insurance Agent having licence
from Insurance Regulatory & Development Authority of India
(IRDAI). The company is engaged in the sale of both Life and
General (Non-Life) Insurance products.
BPO Services
HDB runs a Collections BPO business, offering end-to end,
specialised collection services with domain expertise in
collections tele-calling, recovery management, collections
analytics and cash reconciliation management. The division
also delivers back-office services such as forms processing,
documents verification, finance and accounting services and
correspondence management and front office services such as
contact centre management and outbound marketing.
The Enablers
HDB's presence across diverse digital channels has enabled
the company to offer a wide variety of financial solutions to its
customers. HDB's customers can access and manage their loan
account 24/7 through its Mobile Banking Application - 'HDB On
The Go', Customer Service Portal to manage the loan account,
Missed Call Service, WhatsApp Account Management Service
and the Chatbot #AskPriya.
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank held 94.96 per cent stake
in HDB.
Other Statutory Disclosures
Number of Meetings of the Board, attendance,
meetings and constitution of various Committees
Fourteen (14) meetings of the Board were held during the year
under review. The details of Board meetings held during the
year, attendance of Directors at the meetings and constitution
of various Committees of the Board are included separately in
the Corporate Governance Report.
Annual Return
In accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, the
Annual Return of the Bank in the prescribed Form MGT-7 is
available on the website of the Bank at the link https://www.
hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/investor-relations/annual-
reports.
Requirement for maintenance of cost records
The cost records as specified by the Central Government under
section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, are not required to
be maintained by the Bank.
152