Shareholder Information
that the eligibility conditions are satisfied. Please note that all
fields mentioned in the aforesaid forms are mandatory
and the Bank may reject the forms submitted, if they do
not fulfil the requirement of the law.
Needless to mention, valid Permanent Account Number ("PAN")
will be mandatorily required. Shareholders who are required
to link Aadhaar number with PAN as required under Section
139AA(2) read with Rule 114AAA, should compulsorily link the
same. If, as required under the law, any PAN is found to have not
been linked with Aadhaar, then such PAN will be inoperative and
tax would be deducted at a higher rate under Section 206AA
of the Act. The Bank reserves its right to recover any demand
raised subsequently on the Bank for not informing the Bank
or providing wrong information about applicability of Section
206AA in your case.
Nil / lower tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to
following resident shareholders on submission of self-declaration
as listed below:
i.
Insurance companies: Declaration that the provisions of
Section 194 of the Act are not applicable to them along with
self-attested copy of registration certificate and PAN card.
ii.
Mutual Funds: Declaration by Mutual Fund shareholder
eligible for exemption under section 10(23D) of the Act
along with self-attested copy of registration documents
and PAN card.
iii.
Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) established in
India: Declaration that the shareholder is eligible for
exemption under section 10(23FBA) of the Act and they
are established as Category I or Category II AIF under
the applicable SEBI regulations, along with copy of self-
attested registration documents and PAN card.
iv.
New Pension System Trust: Declaration along with self-
attested copy of documentary evidence supporting the
exemption and self-attested copy of PAN card.
V.
Other shareholders: Declaration along with self-attested
copy of documentary evidence supporting the exemption
and self-attested copy of PAN card.
vi.
Shareholders who have provided a valid certificate issued
under section 197 of the Act for lower / nil rate of deduction
or an exemption certificate issued by the Income Tax
authorities along with declaration.
. For non-resident shareholders (including
Foreign Portfolio Investors)
Tax is required to be withheld in accordance with the provisions
of Sections 195 and 196D of the Act at applicable rates in
force. As per the relevant provisions of the Act, the tax shall be
withheld @ 20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess) on the
amount of dividend payable. However, as per Section 90 of the
Act, a non-resident shareholder has the option to be governed
by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement
("DTAA") between India and the country of tax residence of the
shareholder, if they are more beneficial to the shareholder. For
this purpose, i.e. to avail the DTAA benefits, the non-resident
shareholder will have to provide the following:
i.
Self-attested copy of PAN card, if any, allotted by the Indian
Income Tax Authorities
ii.
Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate ("TRC")
obtained from the tax authorities of the country of which
the shareholder is resident
iii.
Self-declaration in Form 10F
iv.
Self-declaration by the non-resident shareholder of meeting
DTAA eligibility requirement and satisfying beneficial
ownership requirement (Non-resident having PE in India
would need to comply with provisions of section 206AB of
the IT Act)
V.
In case of Foreign Portfolio Investors, self-attested copy of
SEBI registration certificate.
vi.
In case of shareholder being tax resident of Singapore,
please furnish the letter issued by the competent authority
or any other evidences demonstrating the non-applicability
of Article 24 - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore
Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA)
Application of beneficial DTAA rate shall depend upon the
completeness and satisfactory review by the Bank, of the
documents submitted by non-resident shareholders and
meeting requirements of the Act read with applicable DTAA. It
must be ensured that self-declaration should be addressed to
HDFC Bank and should be in the prescribed format. In absence
of the same, the Bank will not be obligated to apply the beneficial
DTAA rate at the time of tax deduction on dividend.
426