Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
which some have assets in special funds or securities. The
plans are financed by the Company and in the case of
some defined contribution plans by the Company along
with its employees.
Defined-contribution plans
These are plans in which the Company pays pre-defined
amounts to separate funds and does not have any legal
or informal obligation to pay additional sums. These
comprise of contributions to the National Pension Scheme,
Employees' Provident Fund, Family Pension Fund and
Superannuation Fund. The Company's payments to the
defined-contribution plans are reported as expenses during
the period in which the employees perform the services
that the payment covers.
Defined-benefit plans
Expenses for defined-benefit gratuity plan are calculated
as at the Balance Sheet date by an independent actuary
in a manner that distributes expenses over the employee's
working life. These commitments are valued at the present
value of the expected future payments, with consideration
for calculated future salary increases, using a discount rate
corresponding to the interest rate estimated by the actuary
having regard to the interest rate on government bonds with
a remaining term that is almost equivalent to the average
balance working period of employees. The fair values of
the plan assets are deducted in determining the net liability.
When the fair value of plan assets exceeds the commitments
computed as aforesaid, the recognised asset is limited to
the net total of any cumulative past service costs and the
present value of any economic benefits available in the form
of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Actuarial losses or gains are recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account in the year in which they arise.
Other long term employee benefits
Compensated absences which accrue to employees and
which can be carried to future periods and are expected
to be availed in more than twelve months immediately
following the year in which the employee has rendered
service are reported as expenses during the year in which
the employees perform the services that the benefit covers
and the liabilities are reported at the undiscounted amount
of the benefits.
Share-based payment transactions
a. The cost of equity-settled instrument is determined by
the fair value at the date when the grant is made using
an appropriate valuation model.
b.
That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding
increase in share-based payment reserves in equity,
over the period in which the performance and /
or service conditions are fulfilled. The cumulative
expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at
each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the
extent to which the vesting period has expired and
the Company's best estimate of the number of equity
instruments that will ultimately vest.
C.
When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified,
the minimum expense recognised is the expense
had the terms had not been modified, if the original
terms of the award are met. An additional expense is
recognised for any modification that increases the total
fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or
is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at
the date of modification. Where an award is cancelled
by the entity or by the counter-party, any remaining
element of the fair value of the award is expensed
immediately through the Profit and Loss Account.
HDB Financial Services Limited
Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity to all employees. The
benefit is in the form of lump sum payments to vested
employees on resignation, retirement, or death while
in employment or on termination of employment of an
amount equivalent to 15 days basic salary payable for
each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon
completion of five years of service. The Company makes
annual contributions to fund administered by trustees and
managed by insurance companies. The defined benefit
plan are valued by an independent external actuary as
at the Balance Sheet date using the projected unit credit
method to determine the present value of defined benefit
obligation and the related service costs. Under this method,
the determination is based on actuarial calculations, which
include assumptions about demographics, early retirement,
salary increases and interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Provident fund
In accordance with the applicable law, all employees of
the Company are entitled to receive benefits under the
Provident Fund Act, 1952. The Company contributes an
amount, on a monthly basis, at a determined rate to the
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident
Fund Commissioner ('RPFC') and the Company has no
liability for future provident fund benefits other than its
annual contribution. Since it is a defined contribution plan,
the contributions are accounted for on an accrual basis and
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 329