Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
II. Design and Structure of Remuneration
The design and structure of remuneration in accordance with the RBI guidelines dated November 4, 2019, pertaining
to the performance year 2020-2021 and the related payouts made in the financial year ended March 31, 2022 are
as follows:
a) Fixed Pay
The Remuneration Policy ensures that the fixed component of the compensation is reasonable, taking into
account all relevant factors including industry practice.
Elements of Fixed Pay:
The fixed pay component of the Bank's compensation structure typically consists of elements such as base
salary, allowances, perquisites and retirement benefits. Perquisites extended are in the nature of company
car, company leased accommodation, club membership and such other benefits or allowances in lieu of such
perquisites / benefits. Retirement benefits include contributions to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund
(for employees above certain job bands), National Pension Scheme and Gratuity. The Bank also provides
pension to certain employees of the erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) under the Indian Banks' Association
('IBA') structure.
Determinants of Fixed Pay:
The fixed pay is primarily determined by taking into account factors such as the job size, performance,
experience, location, market competitiveness of pay and is designed to meet the following key objectives of:
(a) fair compensation given the role complexity and size;
(b) fair compensation given the individual's skill, competence, experience and market pay position;
(c) contribution to post retirement benefits; and
(d) compliance with all statutory obligations.
The quantum of fixed pay for the Senior Management i.e. Employees in Executive Vice President and above
grades, Material Risk Takers other than Whole Time Directors, Risk and Control Staff and Key Management
Personnel are approved by the NRC and the Board.
The quantum of fixed pay for Whole Time Directors is approved by the NRC and the Board, and is subject to
the approval of the RBI.
b) Variable Pay - For Senior Management and Material Risk Takers
The performance management system forms the basis for variable pay allocation of the Bank. The Remuneration
Policy of the Bank ensures that the performance management system is comprehensive and considers both,
quantitative and qualitative performance measures.
(i) Composition of Variable pay
The variable pay will be in the form of share linked instruments or a mix of cash and share linked instruments.
The share linked instrument used in the financial year 2021-22 was the Employee Stock Options. All plans
for grant of options are framed in accordance with the SEBI guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to
time and are approved by the shareholders of the Bank. These plans provide for the grant of options post
approval by the NRC. For Whole Time Directors the variable pay is approved by the NRC, Board and the
Reserve Bank of India.
The Bank will ensure that there is a proper balance between Fixed Pay and Variable Pay. In cases where
compensation by way of share-linked instruments is not permitted by law / regulations, the entire variable
pay will be in cash.
(ii) Limits on Variable pay
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual,
business unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels
of responsibility, the proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a
maximum of 300% of the fixed pay (for the relative performance period).
274