Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
Identification of Non - Performing advances (NPA) and provision on advances
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Reserve Bank of India's ("RBI") guidelines on Income recognition,
asset classification and provisioning ("IRACP") prescribe the prudential
norms for identification and classification of non-performing assets
("NPA") and the minimum provision required for such assets.
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls (including
application controls) over approval, recording, monitoring and recovery
of loans, monitoring overdue / stressed accounts, identification of NPA,
provision for NPA and valuation of security including collateral.
The Bank is required to have Board approved policy as per IRACP
guidelines for NPA identification and provision.
Testing of Application controls include testing of automated controls,
reports and system reconciliations.
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine
the identification and provision required against NPAs by applying
quantitative as well as qualitative factors. The risk of identification of
NPAs is affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in certain
sectors.
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing and classification
of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature of loan product, value of security
and other qualitative factors and is subject to the minimum provisioning
norms specified by RBI and approved policy of the Bank in this regard.
Additionally, the Bank makes provisions on exposures that are not
classified as NPAs including advances to certain sectors and identified
advances or group advances that can potentially slip into NPA. These
are classified as contingency provisions.
Evaluated the governance process and tested controls over calculations
of provision on non-performing advances, basis of provisioning in
accordance with the Board approved policy.
Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and qualitative risk factors
for their assessment of appropriate classification as NPA including
computation of overdue ageing to assess its correct classification and
provision amount as per extant IRACP norms and Bank policy.
the following:
Performed other substantive procedures including but not limited to
· Selected samples of performing loans and assessed independently
as to whether those should be classified as NPA;
. For samples selected examined the security valuation, financial
statements and other qualitative information;
The Management of the Bank also makes an assessment of the impact
on borrowers' accounts which were restructured as per RBI Circulars
issued to provide relief to the borrowers.
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for advances require
significant level of estimation and given its significance to the overall
audit including possible observation by RBI which could result into
disclosure in the financial statements, we have ascertained identification
and provisioning for NPAs as a key audit matter.
· Considered the accounts reported by the Bank and other Banks as
Special Mention Accounts ("SMA") in RBI's Central Repository of
Information on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify stress;
· For selected samples assessed independently accounts that can
potentially be classified as NPA and Red Flagged Accounts;
· Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to ascertain
if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence of an event of
default in a particular loan account or any product category which
needed to be considered as NPA;
. Held specific discussions with the management of the Bank on
sectors where there is perceived credit risk and the steps taken to
mitigate the risks to identified sectors;
· Selected and tested samples of accounts which were restructured
under MSME restructuring circular and Resolution Framework for
COVID-19 related stress circular for their compliance with the RBI
directions;
. Assessed the adequacy of disclosures against the relevant
accounting standards and RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 29
299