Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
of pay, it does acknowledge the external competitive pressures of the talent market. Accordingly, there could be
certain key profiles with critical competencies which may be hired at a premium and treated as an exception to the
overall pay philosophy. Any deviation from the defined pay ranges is treated as a hiring exception requiring approval
with appropriate justification.
Pay Increment / Pay Revision
The Bank strives to ensure external competitiveness as well as internal equity without diluting the overall focus on
optimising cost. In order to enhance the Bank's external competitiveness, it participates in an annual salary survey of
the banking sector to understand key market trends as well as get insights on relative market pay position compared
to peers. The Bank endeavors to ensure that most employees progress to the median of the market in terms of
fixed pay over time. This coupled with key internal data indicators like performance score, job family, experience,
job grade and salary budget form the basis of decision making on revisions in fixed pay.
Increments in fixed pay for majority of the employee population are generally undertaken once every financial year.
However, promotions, confirmations and change in job dimensions could also lead to a change in the fixed pay
during other times of the financial year.
The Bank also makes salary corrections and adjustments during the financial year for competitive pay positioning
for the purpose of retention of critical skills in the domain of Information Technology, Digital, Information Security,
Data Science as well as business segments that are strategic focus areas of the bank. However, such pay revisions
are done on an exception basis.
The Fixed Pay for the Material Risk Takers (other than Whole Time Directors), Senior Management, Key Management
Personnel is approved by the NRC and the Board. The Fixed Pay for the Whole Time Directors is approved by the
NRC, Board and the Reserve Bank of India.
C. Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration
processes, including the nature and type of the key measures used to take account of these risks
The Bank takes into account various types of risks in its remuneration processes. The Bank follows a comprehensive
framework that includes within its ambit the key dimensions of remuneration such as fixed pay, variable pay and long
term incentives (i.e. Employee Stock Options).
Fixed pay: The Bank conducts a comprehensive market benchmarking study to ensure that employees are competitively
positioned in terms of fixed pay. The Bank follows a robust salary review process wherein revisions in fixed compensation
are based on performance. The Bank also makes salary adjustments taking into consideration pay positioning of
employees vis-à-vis market reference points. Through this approach the Bank endeavors to ensure that the talent risk
due to attrition is mitigated. Fixed pay could be revised downwards as well, in the event of certain proven cases of
misconduct by an employee.
Variable pay: The Bank has distinct types of variable pay plans as given below:
(a) Quarterly / monthly performance-linked pay (PLP) plans:
All quarterly / monthly PLP plans are based on the principle of balanced scorecard framework that includes within
its ambit both quantitative and qualitative factors including key strategic objectives that ensure future competitive
advantage for the Bank. PLP plans, by design, have deterrents that play a role of moderating payouts based on the
non-fulfillment of established quantitative / qualitative risk factors. Deterrents also include risks arising out of non-
compliance, mis-sell etc. Further, a portion of all payouts under the PLP plans is deferred till the end of the financial
year to provide for any unforeseen performance risks. Employees who are part of the PLP plans are excluded from
the Annual Bonus Plan.
(b) Variable Pay:
The Bank takes into consideration the fact that a portion of the Bank's profits are directly attributable to various
types of risks the Bank is exposed to such as credit risk and market risk.
278