Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
the criteria for identification of persons who are qualified and
'fit and proper' to become Directors on the Board- such as
academic qualifications, competence, track record, integrity, etc.
which shall be considered by the NRC while recommending
appointment of Directors. The Policy is available on the website
of the Bank at the link https://www.hdfcbank.com/personal/
about-us/corporate-governance/codes-and-policies.
The remuneration of all employees of the Bank, including Whole
Time Directors, Material Risk Takers, Key Managerial Personnel
and Senior Management, is governed by the Compensation
Policy of the Bank. The same is available at the web-link https://
www.hdfcbank.com/personal/about-us/corporate-governance/
codes-and-policies. The Compensation Policy of the Bank, duly
reviewed and recommended by the NRC has been articulated in
line with the relevant Reserve Bank of India guidelines.
Your Bank's Compensation Policy is aimed to attract, retain,
reward and motivate talented individuals critical for achieving
strategic goals and long term success. The Compensation
Policy is aligned to business strategy, market dynamics, internal
characteristics and complexities within the Bank. The ultimate
objective is to provide a fair and transparent structure that helps
the Bank to retain and acquire the talent pool critical to building
competitive advantage and brand equity.
Your Bank's approach is to have a "pay for performance"
culture based on the belief that the Performance Management
System provides a sound basis for assessing performance
holistically. The compensation system should also take into
account factors such as roles, skills / competencies, experience
and grade / seniority to differentiate pay appropriately on the
basis of contribution, skill and availability of talent on account
of competitive market forces. The details of the Compensation
Policy are also included in Note No. 25 of Schedule 18 forming
part of the Accounts.
Non-Executive Directors are paid remuneration by way of sitting
fees for attending meetings of the Board and its Committees,
which are determined by the Board based on applicable
regulatory prescriptions.
Further, expenses incurred by them for attending meetings
of the Board and Committees in person are reimbursed at
actuals. Pursuant to the relevant RBI guidelines and approval
of the shareholders, the Non-Executive Directors, other than
the Chairperson, are paid fixed remuneration of ₹ 20,00,000
(Rupees Twenty Lakh Only) per annum for each Non-Executive
Director on proportionate basis.
Mr. Malay Patel, Independent Director of the Bank, is also an
Independent Director on the Board of HDFC Securities Limited,
subsidiary of the Bank. Mr. Patel receives sitting fees and
reimbursement of expenses at actuals incurred for attending
Board/ Committee meetings from the said subsidiary. None of
the Directors of your Bank other than Mr. Patel is a director of
the Bank's subsidiaries as on March 31, 2022.
Succession Planning
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee ('NRC') and the
Board of Directors ("the Board"), review succession planning
and transitions at the Board and Senior Management levels. The
Board composition and the desired skill sets/ areas of expertise
at the Board level are continuously reviewed and vacancies, if
any, are reviewed in advance through a systematic due diligence
process. The recent appointment on the Board of Mrs. Lily
Vadera as an Independent Director was done taking into account
her skill sets/areas of expertise in the banking industry.
Succession planning at Senior Management levels, including
business and assurance functions, is continuously reviewed to
ensure continuity and depth of leadership at two levels below the
Managing Director. Successors are identified prior to the Senior
Management positions falling vacant, to ensure a smooth and
seamless transition.
Succession planning is a continuous process which is periodically
reviewed by the NRC and the Board.
Significant and Material Orders Passed by
Regulators
1)
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) by an order dated May 27, 2021,
levied a penalty of ₹10 cores (Rupees ten crores only) for
marketing and sale of third-party non-financial products
to the Bank's auto loan customers, arising from a whistle
blower complaint, which revealed, inter alia, contravention
of Section 6(2) and Section 8 of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949. The Bank has discontinued the sale of said
third-party non-financial product since October 2019.
The penalty was paid by the Bank.
2)
SEBI issued final order on January 21, 2021, levying a
penalty of ₹1 crore on the Bank, in the matter of invocation
of securities pledged by BMA Wealth Creators (BRH
Wealth Kreators) for availing credit facilities. SEBI has also
directed the Bank to transfer sale proceeds of ₹ 158.68
crores on invocation of securities, along with interest to
escrow account with a nationalised bank by marking lien
in favour of SEBI. The Bank had challenged SEBI's order
before SAT and SAT, vide its interim order, have stayed
operation of SEBI's order. SAT, vide its final order dated
February 18, 2022, allowed the Bank's appeal and quashed
SEBI's Order.
3)
RBI has issued an Order dated December 02, 2020 ("Order")
to HDFC Bank Limited (the "Bank") with regard to certain
incidents of outages in the internet banking/mobile banking/
payment utilities of the Bank over the past 2 years, including
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 15