Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
· Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(₹ crore)
Sr.
No.
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
i)
The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives
undertaken during the years reported
Nil
Nil
ii) The total notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives
outstanding
Nil
Nil
iii) The notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate derivatives
outstanding and not 'highly effective'
N.A.
N.A.
iv) Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives outstanding and
not 'highly effective'
N.A.
N.A.
· Qualitative disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
Overview of business and processes
Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from underlying assets, or from interest rates, exchange
rates or indices. These include forwards, swaps, futures and options. The notional amounts of financial instruments such as
foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with the instruments recognised on the Balance
Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and,
therefore, do not indicate the Bank's exposure to credit or price risks. The following sections outline the nature and terms of
the derivative transactions generally undertaken by the Bank.
Interest rate contracts
Forward rate agreements give the buyer the ability to determine the underlying rate of interest for a specified period
commencing on a specified future date (the settlement date). The underlying rate of interest could be an interest rate curve,
interest rate index or bond yield. There is no exchange of principal and settlement is effected on the settlement date. The
settlement amount is the difference between the contracted rate and the market rate prevailing on the settlement date
discounted for the interest period of the agreement.
Interest rate swaps involve the exchange of interest obligations with the counterparty for a specified period without
exchanging the underlying (or notional) principal.
Interest rate caps and floors give the buyer the ability to fix the maximum or minimum rate of interest. The writer of
the contract pays the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is less than the cap rate or the floor rate respectively.
A combination of interest rate caps and floors can create structures such as interest rate collar, cap spreads and floor spreads.
Interest rate futures are standardised interest rate derivative contracts traded on a recognised stock exchange to buy or
sell a notional security or any other interest bearing instrument or an index of such instruments or interest rates at a specified
future date, at a price determined at the time of the contract.
Exchange rate contracts
Forward foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell fixed amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate
on a future date. These instruments are carried at fair value, determined based on either FEDAI rates or market quotations.
Cross currency swaps are agreements to exchange principal amounts denominated in different currencies. Cross currency
swaps may also involve the exchange of interest payments on one specified currency for interest payments in another specified
currency for a specified period.
Currency options (including Exchange Traded Currency Option) give the buyer, on payment of a premium, the right but
not an obligation, to buy or sell specified amounts of currency at an agreed exchange rate on or before a specified future date.
Currency futures contract is a standardised contract traded on an exchange, to buy or sell a certain underlying currency
on a certain date in the future, at a specified price. The contract specifies the rate of exchange between one unit of currency
with another.
252