Shareholder Information
A) DIVIDENDS
Receipt of Dividends through Electronic mode
The SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 have directed that listed companies shall
mandatorily make all payments to investors including dividend
to shareholders, by using any RBI approved electronic mode of
payment viz., National Automated Clearing House (NACH), Direct
Credit, Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), National Electronic
Fund Transfer (NEFT), etc.
In order to receive the dividend without loss of time (as and
when declared by the Bank), all the eligible shareholders holding
shares in demat mode are requested to update with their
respective Depository Participants, their correct core banking
account number, including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit
IFSC Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s). This will facilitate the
remittance of the dividend amount as directed by SEBI directly
in the bank account electronically. Updation of e-mail IDs and
Mobile No(s) will also enable sending communication relating to
credit of dividend, unencashed dividend etc.
Shareholders holding shares in physical form may communicate
details relating to their core banking account, viz., core banking
account number, including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit IFSC
Code, e-mail ID and Mobile No(s) to the Registrars & Transfer
Agents (R&T agent) viz., Datamatics Business Solutions Limited
having address at Plot No. B 5, Part B Crosslane, MIDC, Marol,
Andheri (E), Mumbai-400 093, by quoting the reference folio
number and attaching a photocopy of the Cheque leaf of their
active core banking account along with a self-attested copy
of their PAN card and a self-attested copy of any one of the
documents mentioned hereafter: utility payment bills (not more
than three months old) / bank pass book / passport / driving
license to validate their present address.
Various modes for making payment of dividend under
electronic mode:
In case, the shareholder has updated core banking account
details (including 9 digit MICR Code and 11 digit IFSC code) for
the purpose of payment of dividend (as and when declared by
the Bank), then the Bank shall make the payment of dividend to
such shareholder under any one of the following modes:
1. National Automated Clearing House (NACH)
2. Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
3. National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT)
4. Direct credit in case the shareholders have an active Bank
account with HDFC Bank Limited (Direct Credit).
In case dividend paid by electronic mode is returned or rejected
by the corresponding bank due to any reason then the Bank
will issue a dividend warrant and print the bank account details
available in its records on the said dividend warrant to avoid
fraudulent encashment of the warrants. The dividend warrant
will be dispatched by the R&T agent at the registered address
of the shareholder.
Transfer of Equity Shares to Investor Education
and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 124(6) of
the Companies Act, 2013, all equity shares in respect of
which dividend has / have remained unpaid or unclaimed for
consecutive seven (7) years, the corresponding equity shares
have been transferred in the name of IEPF Authority as notified
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of
India. The MCA has also notified the applicability of Section
124(6) along with the Investor Education and Protection Fund
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016
with effect from September 7, 2016, as amended from time
to time (collectively the "IEPF Rules"). As per said IEPF Rules,
companies are required to transfer the equity shares to IEPF
Authority where seven (7) years as provided under Section 124(5)
of the Companies Act, 2013 have been completed and upon
completion of three (3) months from the date of the notification
of the IEPF Rules, as stated hereinabove.
In compliance with the aforesaid provision on November 30,
2017, your Bank has transferred 5,524,448 equity shares to the
IEPF Authority, MCA account (IEPF) bearing demat account no
12047200 13676780 which is opened with SBI CAP Securities
Ltd as Depository Participant under the Central Depository
Services (India) Limited (CDSL). As required under the said
provisions, all subsequent corporate benefits that may accrue
in relation to the above shares will also be credited to the IEPF
Authority. Your Bank has further transferred 828,846 equity
shares, 710,122 equity shares and 144,206 equity shares to the
IEPF account on April 12, 2019, August 30, 2019 and August 25,
2020, respectively. During the year ended March 31, 2022, your
Bank has further transferred 348,171 equity shares to the IEPF
account on September 15, 2021. The IEPF Authority, till March
31, 2022, transferred 687,330 equity shares against the claims
received by them from the shareholders. (Share figures reported
are of the face value of ₹ 1.00 each).
As per the terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act,
2013 and Rule 7 of the IEPF Rules, the shareholders whose
corresponding equity shares of the face value of ₹ 1.00 each
stand transferred to IEPF account can claim those shares from
IEPF Authority by making an online application in Form IEPF-5
which is available at https://www.iepf.gov.in.
424