Schedules to the Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
Short term Performance: Short term performance is realised in the form of cash variable pay. The cash variable
pay is based on performance rating and the job band of the individual and is further enhanced or moderated by the
business performance multiplier and role. The cash variable pay is computed on the gross salary.
Long term Performance: Employee Stock options are granted to employees based on their performance rating
and Job band and the value of the same is realised vide long term performance of the bank and creation of
shareholder value.
For Employees in Job Bands below Vice President:
At these levels the variable pay is in the form of Cash variable pay only and is based on the Annual performance.
The Bank's annual bonus is computed as a percentage of the gross salary for every job band. The bonus multiple
is based on performance of the business unit (based on the parameters above), performance rating, job band and
the functional category of the individual employee. The business performance category determines the multiplier for
the bonus. All other things remaining equal, for a given job band, the bonus is directly related to the performance
rating. Employees who are part of the annual cash Variable Pay plan are not part of the Performance Linked Plans
mentioned below.
· Performance-linked Plans (PLPs)
The Bank has formulated PLPs for its sales, collections, customer service and relationship roles who are given
sales, collections and service targets basis a balanced scorecard methodology. All PLP payouts are subject to the
achievement of individual targets enumerated in the respective scorecards of the employees and moderated by
qualitative parameters. A portion of the PLP payouts is deferred till the end of the financial year to provide for any
unforeseen performance risks. All PLPs are based on a balanced scorecard framework and, depending on the plan,
could be paid out monthly or quarterly.
E. Description of the ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer term
performance
For employees in Senior Management, Material Risk Takers and Whole Time Directors the Bank seeks to adjust
remuneration to take account of the longer term performance in the following way.
(i)
Limits on variable pay
A substantial portion of compensation i.e. at least 50% will be variable and paid on the basis of individual, business
unit and organization performance. This will be in line with the principle that, at higher levels of responsibility, the
proportion of variable pay will be higher. The total variable pay shall be limited to a maximum of 300% of the fixed pay.
In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case the
variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments. The non-cash
component in 2021-22 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments, his / her
variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(ii)
Deferral of variable pay
For senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), deferral arrangements
will exist for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay will be under deferral arrangements. If cash
component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus shall be deferred. In cases where cash
component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements would not be necessary.
The deferral period would be a minimum of three years and will be applicable to both cash and non-cash components
of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs will be governed by the ESOP Scheme Rules
which will be approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board. In 2021-22 the deferment
of cash variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4 years (vesting period) in
the case of Employee Stock Options.
(iii)
Vesting of Variable Pay
The deferred portion of the remuneration will vest at the end of deferral period and will be spread out over the course
of the deferral period. The first vesting would not be before one year from the commencement of the deferral period.
280