Report on Corporate Governance
Meetings:
The Committee met five (5) times during the year on:
April 15, 2021, July 15, 2021, October 19, 2021, January 13, 2022 and February 16, 2022
IT STRATEGY COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of
Reference / Roles and
Responsibilities:
The Bank has in place an IT Strategy Committee to look into various technology related aspects. The functions of the
Committee are to formulate IT strategy and related policy documents, ensure that IT strategy is aligned with business
strategy, review IT risks, etc.
The terms of reference of the Committee are:
. Approving IT strategy and related policy documents and reviewing the same from time to time.
路 Ensuring that the management has put an effective strategic planning process in place.
路 Approving the Bank's IT strategy and budget to ensure it aligns with the business needs.
路 Approving re-allocation of resources within IT to facilitate meeting priorities and business needs.
路 Reviewing and approving IT implementation plans.
Composition:
This Committee consists of an external IT consultant, Prof. H. Krishmurthy in addition to the Board members viz.
Mr. M.D. Ranganath, Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan, Mr. Atanu Chakraborty and Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
Details of re-constitution:
. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty and Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan were inducted as members of the Committee with effect from
June 9, 2021.
. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari was inducted as member on the Committee with effect from September 17, 2021.
. Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni ceased to be a member of the Committee pursuant to his resignation as director of the
Bank with effect from February 18, 2022.
Meetings:
The Committee met nine (9) times during the year on:
April 8, 2021, May 7, 2021, May 18, 2021, July 14, 2021, August 11, 2021, October 20, 2021, November 24, 2021,
January 14, 2022 and February 15, 2022.
DIGITAL TRANSACTION MONITORING COMMITTEE
Brief Terms of
Reference / Roles and
Responsibilities:
In order to promote digital transactions of the Bank and to provide directions in terms of strategy and action plans
including monitoring the progress of achievement in the digital transactions space, the Bank has constituted the Digital
Transaction Monitoring Committee.
The terms of reference to the Committee, inter-alia include the following:
a) Framing of the Bank-level strategy and action plans for achieving the target of digital transactions in an organized
manner, as may be set by the Government, regulatory authorities, Indian Banks' Association, etc. from time to time.
b) Monitoring the progress of achievement in digital transactions in line with the Bank's strategy and action plans.
c) To review and explore new opportunities for increasing the digital transactions of the Bank from time to time and give
the necessary directions in implementing and improving high level of digitalization in Bank.
d) Reviewing the Digital Banking strategy of the Bank as and when required thereby providing direction on focus areas.
e) Reviewing the progress made on the initiatives relating to Digital Banking covering performance initiatives as
determined by the Board of Directors and Government of India from time to time.
f) To review the customer services rendered on digital platform from time to time.
g) Any other terms of reference as may be specified by the Government, regulatory authorities, Indian Banks'
Association, etc. from time to time.
378