Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
forex deals. Valuation is considered on present value basis.
For this purpose, the forward profit or loss on the deals
are discounted till the valuation date using the discounting
yields. The resulting profit or loss on valuation is recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account. Foreign exchange contracts
are classified as assets when the fair value is positive
(positive marked to market value) or as liabilities when the
fair value is negative (negative marked to market value).
Foreign exchange forward contracts not intended for
trading, that are entered into to establish the amount of
reporting currency required or available at the settlement
date of a transaction and are outstanding at the Balance
Sheet date, are effectively valued at the closing spot rate.
The premium or discount arising at the inception of such
forward exchange contract is amortised as expense or
income over the life of the contract.
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts at fair value, on
the date on which the derivative contracts are entered into
and are re-measured at fair value as at the Balance Sheet
date. Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value
is positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities
when the fair value is negative (negative marked to market
value).
The Bank as part of its risk management strategy, makes
use of financial derivative instruments, including foreign
exchange forward contracts, for hedging the risk embedded
in some of its financial assets or liabilities recognised on the
balance sheet. The Bank identifies the hedged item (asset
or liability) at the inception of the transaction itself. Hedge
effectiveness is ascertained at the time of the inception of
the hedge and at the reporting date thereafter.
In case of a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of
the hedging instruments and hedged items are recognised
in the Profit and Loss Account and in case of cash flow
hedges, the changes in fair value of effective portion are
recognised in Reserves and Surplus under 'Cash flow
hedge reserve' and ineffective portion of an effective
hedging relationship, if any, is recognised in the Profit
and Loss Account. The accumulated balance in the cash
flow hedge reserve, in an effective hedging relationship, is
recycled in the Profit and Loss Account at the same time
that the impact from the hedged item is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account.
HDB Financial Services Limited
Derivative contracts are designated as cash flow hedges,
the hedging instrument is measured at fair value and any
gain or loss that is determined to be an effective hedge is
recognised within equity i.e., Cash flow Hedge Reserve.
Amounts recognised in equity are transferred to the Profit
and Loss Account in the same period as the cash flows of
hedged items affect the Profit and Loss Account. When a
derivative contract expires or is sold or if a hedge no longer
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative
profit or loss in the Cash Flow Hedge Reserve is retained
in equity until the hedged cash flow is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account. However, if hedged cash flows
are no longer expected to occur, the profit or loss against
the corresponding derivative contract, accumulated in the
Cash Flow Hedge Reserve, is immediately released through
the Profit and Loss Account. Changes in the fair values
of derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge
accounting are recognised immediately in the Profit and
Loss Account.
8
Revenue recognition
HDFC Bank Limited
· Interest income is recognised in the Profit and Loss
Account on an accrual basis, except in the case of non-
performing assets and overdue interest on retail EMI
based performing advances, which are recognised
when realised. In case of domestic advances, where
interest is collected on rear end basis, such interest
is accounted on receipt basis in accordance with the
RBI communication.
· Interest income on investments in PTCs and loans
bought out through the direct assignment route is
recognised at their effective interest rate.
· Income on non-coupon bearing discounted
instruments is recognised over the tenor of the
instrument on a constant yield basis.
· Loan processing fee is recognised as income when
due. Syndication / Arranger fee is recognised as
income when a significant act / milestone is completed.
· Gain / loss on sell down of loans is recognised in line
with the extant RBI guidelines.
· Dividend on equity shares, preference shares and on
mutual fund units is recognised as income when the
right to receive the dividend is established.
· Guarantee commission, commission on letter of credit,
annual locker rent fees and annual fees for credit cards
are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period
of contract. Other fees and commission income are
recognised when due, where the Bank is reasonably
certain of ultimate collection.
· Fees paid / received for priority sector lending
certificates (PSLC) is recognised on straight-line basis
over the period of the certificate.
326