Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
In case the variable pay is upto 200% of the fixed pay, a minimum of 50% of the variable pay; and in case
the variable pay is above 200%, a minimum of 67% of the variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments.
The non-cash component in 2021-22 comprised of Employee Stock Options.
In the event that the employee is barred by statute or regulation from grant of share-linked instruments,
his / her variable pay will be capped at 150% of fixed pay but shall not be less than 50% of the fixed pay.
(iii) Deferral of Variable pay
For senior management including Whole Time Directors (WTDs) and Material Risk Takers (MRTs), de-
ferral arrangements exists for the variable pay. A minimum of 60% of total variable pay is under deferral
arrangements. If cash component is a part of the variable pay, at least 50% of the cash bonus is deferred.
In cases where cash component of the bonus is under Rs 25 lakh, deferral arrangements is not necessary.
The deferral period is a minimum of three years and is applicable to both cash and non-cash components
of variable pay. The deferral period for share linked instruments / ESOPs is governed by the ESOP Scheme
Rules which is approved by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board. In 2021-22,
the deferment of cash variable pay, where applicable, was 3 years in the case of cash variable pay and 4
years (vesting period) in the case of Employee Stock Options.
(iv) Vesting of Variable Pay
The deferred portion of the remuneration vests at the end of deferral period and is spread out over the
course of the deferral period. The first vesting is not before one year from the commencement of the
deferral period. The vesting is no faster than on a pro rata basis and the frequency of the vesting is more
than a year in order to ensure appropriate assessment of risk.
(v) Malus / Clawback Arrangement
The Bank believes in sustained business performance in tandem with prudent risk taking. The Bank,
therefore, has devised appropriate deterrents in order to institutionalize the aforementioned commitment.
Malus Arrangement: The provision of a Malus arrangement would entail cancellation of payout for the
deferred portion of reward (cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument). The
RBI guidelines define Malus thus "A Malus arrangement permits the bank to prevent vesting of all or part of the
amount of a deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse vesting after it has already occurred".
Clawback Arrangement: The provision of Clawback arrangement would entail return of payout of reward
(cash variable pay / long term incentive (LTI) i.e. any Share Linked Instrument) made in the previous years
attributable to a given reference year wherein the incident has occurred. The return would be in terms of
net amount. The RBI guidelines define Clawback thus "A Clawback is a contractual agreement between the
employee and the bank in which the employee agrees to return previously paid or vested remuneration to the
bank under certain circumstances".
The Malus and Clawback clause will be actioned when the employee demonstrates behaviour involving
fraudulent behaviour, moral turpitude, lack of integrity, flagrant breach of company policies and statutory
norms resulting in financial or non-financial losses. Manifestation of behaviour listed above is presumed to
have a malafide intent. Illustrative list of conditions are enumerated below. The occurrence of any / some / all
of the following conditions / events shall trigger a review by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee for
the application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement:
a)
Substantial Financial Deterioration in profitability or risk parameters
b)
Reckless, negligent or willful actions or exhibited inappropriate values and behavior
C)
Fraud that requires a financial restatement
d)
Reputational harm
e)
Exposing the bank to substantial risk
f)
Such other conditions or events, of similar nature as above, as determined by NRC for triggering review
by NRC for the purpose of application of the Malus or the Clawback arrangement.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
275