Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
The Bank's Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
containing a report on its Corporate Social Responsibility
Activities and Initiatives in the format adopted by companies in
India as per the guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India in this regard forms an integral part of this report.
Information under the Sexual Harassment of
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013
The relevant information is included in the Corporate
Governance Report.
Acknowledgement
Your Directors would like to place on record their gratitude for
all the guidance and co-operation received from the Reserve
Bank of India and other government and regulatory agencies.
Your Directors would also like to take this opportunity to express
their appreciation for the hard work and dedicated efforts put
in by the Bank's employees and look forward to their continued
contribution in building a 'World Class Indian Bank.'
Conclusion
The year started in the shadow of the pandemic. The good news
is that it more or less appears to be behind us. In no small
measure due to the roll out of the vaccination programme.
The recovery in health has been followed by clear signs of
economic recovery with the country's GDP growing by 8.7 per
cent in 2021-22 against a contraction of 6.6 per cent in the
previous year.
Headwinds have now appeared in the form of inflationary
pressures due to a combination of supply chain disruptions
and geopolitical tensions particularly the Ukraine crisis. In an
effort to contain inflation the RBI has hiked the Repo Rate by 90
basis points in two announcements - an off cycle one on May
4 and the June Policy- to 4.90 per cent. Notwithstanding these
challenges the Indian economy is expected to be the fastest
growing one in the world. That is clearly good news.
Going forward, the Bank has a huge opportunity as India is
still under penetrated when it comes to banking services.
Your Bank clearly has certain factors in its favour : A strong
balance sheet with among the lowest NPA levels in the industry
and a trusted franchise. The regulators too have been kind.
Our progress against our regulatory commitments over the past
year has resulted in the lifting of the restrictions placed on new
card acquisitions in August 2021, followed by the removal of the
embargo on the Digital 2.0 program in March 2022. The Bank
has also rolled out the Future Ready Strategy. All this will help
the Bank move forward in the next level of its growth journey.
It will do this by focusing on its five core values: Customer
Focus, Operational Excellence, Product Leadership, People and
Sustainability. And adhere to the highest standards of corporate
governance as we continue to 'Lead Responsibly'.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Sashidhar Jagdishan
Atanu Chakraborty
Managing Director
Part-time Chairman and
Independent Director
and CEO
Mumbai, June 10, 2022
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
159