Business Continuity Management, Information
& Cyber Security Practices
Robust information and cyber security practices for an uninterrupted
march towards rapid digitisation
Governance over Data
As a responsible banker cyber security,
and data privacy are of paramount
importance to us. To manage these
risks, we have constituted an IT
Strategy Committee, Information
Security Committee in addition to
the Information Security Group with
specific roles and responsibilities. We
also have in place a cybersecurity
framework and an information security
programme. We undertake stringent
processes and measures such as
vulnerability management processes
that actively scan for security threats,
logging and monitoring procedures
to deal with network intrusions and
incidents. There were no incidents of
data breaches In FY22.
We adhere to the 'Code of Bank's
Commitment to Customers' as
prescribed by the Banking Codes
and Standards Board of India
(BCSBI) and Employee and Customer
Awareness Procedures, to ensure
customer privacy and are guided by
our Information Security Policy and
Cyber Security Policy, which is at par
with global standards in information
security.
Further we have an independent
assurance team within Internal
Audit which provides assurance
on the management of information
technology-related risks.
IT Strategy Committee
This committee looks into various
technology related aspects. The
functions of the Committee are to
formulate IT strategy and related policy
documents, ensure that IT strategy
is aligned with business strategy.
The committee comprises majorly of
independent directors and includes an
external information technology expert.
Information Security Committee
This Committee is chaired by the CRO
(Chief Risk Officer) and is responsible
to assess, accept and sponsor
company-wide security investments.
It provides a forum to discuss
information security risks and acts as
a custodian for the enterprise security
programme. The committee meets
on a quarterly basis with participation
from IT, Business Operations, Audit,
and the Information Security Group.
Information Security Programme
This programme is based on regulatory
requirements (RBI Gopalakrishnan
committee report) and industry
standards (ISO 27001:2013 and NIST
800-53). Our cybersecurity framework
consists of components such as
Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond,
and Recover which remind us of how
important it is to balance proactive
safeguards while preparing for worst-
case scenarios.
Key objectives of the programme include:
· Documenting, disseminating,
operating, and reviewing information
security policies, and procedures
· Monitoring cyber security threats
and reviewing the risk profile across
all critical assets, infrastructure
components and business units/
departments
· Providing transparency into the
information security programme
and associated controls to senior
management including board
· Responding promptly to information
security incidents and policy
violations/exceptions in accordance
with organisational policy
· Determining whether the actions
taken to resolve an incident were
effective and whether corrective
actions are required, and
documenting lessons learnt
Key measures undertaken by
us, to mitigate information
security related risks are:
Antivirus/Malware Programme
We have implemented a programme
to prevent, detect and react to
the introduction of malicious code
through sources such as computer
viruses, worms, and Trojans. We use a
combination of commercially available
and proprietary tools and monitoring
systems to mitigate the risks
associated with malware. The antivirus
signatures are updated more than
once per day to stay current and cover
workstations, servers, email gateways,
web gateways.
Network Security
The Bank uses a combination of
firewalls and proxy servers to separate
and control traffic between networks
with different security requirements
and levels of trust. The Bank has
intrusion detection/prevention
capabilities in place to detect and react
to known attacks in real time. IDS/IPS
signatures are updated periodically to
update detections for specific threats,
intruder profiles, and attack patterns.
These tools are configured to generate
alerts when predefined thresholds are
exceeded.
54