Emerging Growth Engine
Commercial and Rural Banking
The Bank's Commercial and Rural Banking (CRB) group
was set up in the last financial year to cater to the needs
of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs)
emerging corporates, commercial agriculture, small and
marginal farmers, healthcare finance, equipment finance
and commercial transport companies. While these are
different businesses, the common thread binding them
is that they all have a huge footprint in Semi Urban and
Rural (SURU) India. As has the Bank with about half
its branches in SURU locations. This vertical is also
important as its disbursals help the Bank in meeting a
large part of the Priority Sector Lending requirements.
CRB has been identified as a growth engine and was
the fastest growing vertical for the bank in the year
under review. A wide reach across geographies of the
country - district by district and understanding of local
level business dynamics has helped it in achieving growth
rates that exceed the industry average. The Bank at
present has 6,300+ branches of which over 5,300+ have
loans outstanding to MSME customers. The sourcing
model through branch channels allied to traditional
prudence is one of the key reasons for containing
NPAS. A well trained relationship team does frequent
interaction with MSME customers for their overall
banking requirements including the personal banking of
promoters and family members.
In the rural segment, the Bank is planning to expand
its services to 2 Lakh villages in the next two years. It
funds not only traditional agriculture but also allied
activities. It is totally committed to furthering the
Government's agenda by supporting its various
schemes be it AIF/FPO/PMFME and lending to
small and marginal farmers.
HDFC Bank is the leading player in the commercial
vehicle financing business with its share increasing
considerably in the year ended March 31, 2022. It will be
focusing on increasing market share further by expanding
into deeper geographies and hiring more feet on street.
The Bank has also established a robust healthcare
ecosystem to capture high potential offered by hospitals,
nursing homes, pathologies, laboratories, chemists,
doctors and patient finance.
The CRB vertical shall continue contributing to the bank's
growth as well as the nation's growth through its bouquet
of products.
20