Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
As on March 31, 2022, your Bank's ratio of Gross Non Performing
Assets (GNPAs) to Gross Advances was 1.17 per cent. Net Non-
performing Assets (Gross Non-Performing Assets Less Specific
Loan Loss provisions) was 0.32 per cent of Net Advances.
Your Bank has a conservative and prudent policy for specific
provisions on NPAs. Its provision for NPAs is higher than the
minimum regulatory requirements and adheres to the regulatory
norms for Standard Assets.
Digital and Credit Risk
Driven by rapid advancements in technology, digitalisation is
increasingly becoming a key differentiator for customer retention
and service delivery in the banking sector. Digital lending enables
customers to secure loans at the click of a button in a matter of
minutes, if not seconds. However, there are also attendant risks
associated with it and your Bank has put in place appropriate
checks and balances to manage these risks. Such loans are
sanctioned primarily to your Bank's existing customers. Often,
they are customers across multiple products, thus enabling the
Bank ready access to their credit history and risk profile. This
facilitates evaluation on their loan eligibility. Besides, most of the
credit checks and scores used by your Bank in process- based
underwriting are replicated for digital loans. The Bank has an
independent model validation unit that minutely assesses the
models used to generate the credit scores for such loans. These
models are monitored, reviewed periodically, back tested and
corrective action is taken whenever needed.
Market Risk
Market Risk arises largely from your Bank's statutory reserve
management and trading activity in interest rates, equity and
currency market. These risks are managed through a well-
defined Board approved Market Risk Policy, Investment Policy,
Foreign Exchange Trading Policy and Derivatives Policy that
caps risk in different trading desks or various securities through
trading risk limits/triggers. The risk measures include position
limits, tenor restrictions, sensitivity limits, namely, PV01, Modified
Duration of Hold to Maturity Portfolio and Option Greeks, Value-
at-Risk (VaR) Limit, Stop Loss Trigger Level (SLTL), Scenario
based P&L Triggers, Potential Loss Trigger Level (PLTL), and
are monitored on an end-of-day basis. In addition, forex open
positions, currency option delta and interest rate sensitivity
limits are computed and monitored on an intraday basis. This
is supplemented by a Board-approved stress testing policy
and framework that simulates various market risk scenarios
to measure losses and initiate remedial measures. The Market
Risk capital charge of your Bank is computed on a daily basis
using the Standardised Measurement Method applying the
regulatory factors.
Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank may not be able to
meet its financial obligations as they fall due without incurring
unacceptable losses. Your Bank's framework for liquidity and
interest rate risk management is spelt out through a well-defined
Board approved Asset Liability Management Policy. As part of
this process, your Bank has established various Board-approved
limits, both for liquidity risk and interest rate risk in banking book.
Implementation of the policy, monitoring of limits is reviewed by
the Asset Liability Committee (ALCO). While the maturity gap,
Basel III ratios and stock ratio limits help manage liquidity risk,
Net Interest Income and market value impacts help mitigate
interest rate risk. This is reinforced by a comprehensive Board-
approved stress testing programme covering both liquidity and
interest rate risk.
Your Bank conducts various studies to assess the behavioural
pattern of non-contractual assets and liabilities and embedded
options available to customers, which are used while managing
maturity gaps and repricing risk. Further, your Bank also has the
necessary framework in place to manage intraday liquidity risk.
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), a global standard, is also
used to measure your Bank's liquidity position. LCR seeks to
ensure that the Bank has an adequate stock of unencumbered
High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) that can be converted into
cash easily and immediately to meet its liquidity needs under
a 30-day calendar liquidity stress scenario. Based on Basel III
norms, your Bank's average LCR stood at 121.16 per cent on
a consolidated basis for FY 2021-22 as against the regulatory
threshold at 100 per cent.
Average Liquidity Coverage Ratio
121.16 per cent
on a consolidated basis for FY 2021-22
The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), a key liquidity risk measure
under BCBS liquidity standards, is also used to measure your
Bank's liquidity position. The NSFR seeks to ensure that
your Bank maintains a stable funding profile in relation to the
composition of its assets and off-balance sheet activities. The
RBI guidelines stipulated a minimum NSFR requirement of 100
per cent at a consolidated level with effect from October 1, 2021.
Your Bank has maintained the NSFR well above 100 per cent
since its implementation. Based on guidelines issued by RBI,
your Bank's NSFR stood at 124.00 per cent on a consolidated
basis at March 31, 2022.
Operational Risk
This is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal
processes, people and systems or from external events. It also
includes risk of loss due to legal risk.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
147