Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended March 31, 2022
25 COVID-19
HDFC Bank Limited
The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic had led to a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020. This was followed by localised
lockdowns in areas with a significant number of COVID-19 cases. Following the easing of lockdown measures, there was an
improvement in economic activity in the second half of fiscal 2021. Since then India experienced two waves of the COVID-19
pandemic following the discovery of mutant coronavirus variants, leading to the reimposition of regional lockdowns which
were subsequently lifted.
The impact of COVID-19, including changes in customer behaviour and pandemic fears, as well as restrictions on business
and individual activities, led to significant volatility in global and Indian financial markets and a significant decrease in global and
local economic activities. The disruptions following the outbreak, impacted loan originations, the sale of third party products,
the use of credit and debit cards by customers and the efficiency in collection efforts resulting in increase in customer defaults
and consequent increase in provisions there against.
India is emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic. The extent to which any new wave of COVID-19 will impact the bank's results
will depend on ongoing as well as future developments, including, among other things, any new information concerning the
severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, and any action to contain its spread or mitigate its impact whether government mandated
or elected by us.
HDFC Securities Limited
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have a considerable impact on economic activities across the various parts of the
country and across the globe. The Government of India and various state governments have introduced a series of initiatives
over the past year including lockdowns in order to contain the impact of the virus.
Stock broking and depository services have been declared as essential services all through the year and accordingly, the
Company has faced no business stoppage / interruption on account of the lockdown. As of March 31, 2022, based on facts
and circumstances existing as of that date, the Company does not anticipate any material uncertainties which affects its
liquidity position and also ability to continue as a going concern.
26 Refund / Adjustment of 'interest on interest'
In accordance with the instructions in the paragraph 5 of the RBI circular dated April 07, 2021, the Group refunded / adjusted
'interest on interest' of ₹ 302.45 crore to all eligible borrowers during the year ended March 31, 2022.
27 Additional disclosure
Additional statutory information disclosed in the separate financial statements of the Bank and subsidiaries have no material
bearing on the true and fair view of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information pertaining to such items which
are not material have not been disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
28 Disclosure under Rule 11 (e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
The Bank, as part of its normal banking business, grants loans and advances to its constituents including foreign entities with
permission to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security or the like in other entities identified by such constituents. Similarly,
the Bank accepts deposits from its constituents, who may instruct the Bank to lend / invest / provide guarantee or security
or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such constituents. These transactions are part of Bank's normal
banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence including adherence to "Know Your Customer"
guidelines as applicable in respective jurisdiction.
358