Social - Community
Under the Skills Training and Livelihood
Enhancement theme, we focus on the
economic development of farmers
and youth in rural areas by providing
means of generating income through
agricultural or non-agricultural
activities. Since its beginning, this
initiative has assisted around 2.54
Lakh+ people. The overarching
objective is to empower the
disadvantaged by providing them with
greater possibilities, assisting them
in finding local jobs, increasing their
household income and discouraging
migration. We also support women
Self Help Groups (SHGs) or Joint
Liability Groups (JLGs) by providing
occupational skills training, financial
literacy, credit counselling, livelihood
finance, and market linkage. We have
started SLI EMI collections through
Common Service Centre operators
(CSC VLE) providing convenience to
customers at the village level.
We have set separate goals for
individual and institutional capacity
development under this theme.
The first goal focuses on increasing
farmers' income across the country.
We have defined three distinct sub-
goals to move forward in a targeted
and systematic way. Through the
first sub-goal, we aim to reach 5
Lakh small and marginal farmers
(with annual income below ₹60,000)
and support them in maximising
output and reducing input costs. We
are also enabling farmers to adopt
modern and innovative farming tools
and techniques, by providing them
exposure visits to different fields and
agricultural institutes, and supporting
them with seeds, fertilisers, and other
farm support materials. Additionally,
we help farmers diversify their income
by supporting them in allied activities
such as livestock rearing, timber,
horticulture, and fishery, among others.
The second sub-goal relates to the
promotion of 1 Lakh community-
led enterprises to boost local
economic activities, of which ~50%
would be women-led. Under this,
we encourage the economically
deprived communities to engage in
entrepreneurship on an individual or a
cluster basis. We support identification
of prospective economic activities in
the intervention villages and assist
the community members in founding
and operating an enterprise - which
include beauty parlours, small shops,
goateries, poultry, tailoring, etc. for
individual beneficiaries, and processing
units, packaging units, fisheries, and
handicrafts, etc. for group enterprises,
established through FPO, SHG, and
JLG.
The third sub-goal relates to skill
development for employment
generation where we provide
classroom/online/blended skill
development training in trades
that could lead to job placement
or self-employment opportunity
for unemployed youth, school
dropouts and landless farmers. Our
training programmes typically have
certifications from the NSDC, the
Sector Skill Council, or other qualified
non-government agencies.
The second goal relates to the
development and sustenance of
institutions for livelihood enhancement
- particularly community institutions
such as village development
committees, farmers' groups, self-help
groups, water user groups, sanitation
committees, youth groups, and
adolescent groups. We aim to develop
and support 1 Lakh community
institutions. The Bank's intervention
could range from a few months to
three years. The activities are related
to agriculture, water, sanitation, health,
livelihood, and other rural development
work.
8.08 Lakh+
WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS
TRAINED*
8,470+
SHGs REVIVED/FORMED/
TRAINED*
*Refers to achievement since inception till March 31, 2022
100