Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
Superannuation:
The Bank has a Superannuation Plan under which
employees of the Bank, above a prescribed grade, are
entitled to receive retirement benefits either through salary
or under a defined contribution plan. For those opting for
a defined contribution plan, the Bank contributes a sum
equivalent to 13% of the employee's eligible annual basic
salary (15% for the whole time directors and for certain
eligible employees of the erstwhile Centurion Bank of
Punjab (eCBoP staff) to a Trust administered by trustees
and whose funds are managed by insurance companies.
The Bank has no liability towards future superannuation
fund benefits other than its contribution, and recognises
such contribution as an expense in the year incurred.
Provident fund:
The Bank is covered under the Employees Provident Fund
and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and accordingly
all employees of the Bank are entitled to receive benefits
under the provident fund. The Bank contributes an amount,
on a monthly basis, at a determined rate (currently 12%
of employee's basic salary). Of this, the Bank contributes
an amount equal to 8.33% of employee's basic salary up
to a maximum salary level of ₹ 15,000/- per month, to the
Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident
Fund Office. The balance amount of the 12% employer's
share is contributed to an exempted Trust set up by the
Bank and administered by a Board of Trustees. The Bank
recognises such contributions as an expense in the year in
which it is incurred. Interest payable to the members of the
exempted trust shall not be lower than the statutory rate
of interest declared by the Central Government under the
Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions
Act, 1952 and shortfall, if any, shall be made good by
the Bank.
The guidance note on implementing AS-15, Employee
Benefits, states that benefits involving employer established
provident funds, which require interest shortfalls to be
provided, are to be considered as defined benefit plans.
Actuarial valuation of this Provident Fund interest shortfall
is done as per the guidance note issued in this respect by
The Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI) and provision towards
this liability is made.
The overseas branches of the Bank make contribution to the
respective applicable government social security scheme
calculated as a percentage of the employees' salaries.
The Bank's obligations are limited to these contributions,
which are expensed when due, as such contribution is in
the nature of defined contribution.
Pension:
In respect of pension payable to certain eLKB employees
under the Lord Krishna Bank (Employees) Pension
Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme, the Bank
contributes 10% of basic salary to a pension trust set up
by the Bank and administered by the Board of Trustees and
an additional amount towards the liability shortfall based on
an independent actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet
date, which includes assumptions about demographics,
early retirement, salary increases and interest rates.
In respect of certain eLKB employees who had moved to
a Cost to Company (CTC) based compensation structure
and had completed less than 15 years of service, the
contribution which was made until then, is maintained as a
fund and will be converted into annuity on separation after a
lock-in-period of two years. For this category of employees,
liability stands frozen and no additional provision is required
except for interest as applicable to Provident Fund, which
is provided for.
In respect of certain eLKB employees who moved to a CTC
structure and had completed service of more than 15 years,
pension would be paid on separation based on salary
applicable as on the date of movement to CTC structure.
Provision thereto is made based on an independent
actuarial valuation as at the Balance Sheet date.
National Pension Scheme (NPS):
In respect of employees who opt for contribution to the
NPS, the Bank contributes certain percentage of the basic
salary of employees to the aforesaid scheme, a defined
contribution plan, which is managed and administered by
pension fund management companies. The Bank has no
liability other than its contribution, and recognises such
contributions as an expense in the year incurred.
HDFC Securities Limited
Short term
Short term employee benefits include salaries and
performance incentives. A liability is recognised for the
amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus
or target based incentives if the Company has a present
legal or informal obligation to pay this amount as a result of
past service provided by the employee, and the obligation
can be estimated reliably. These costs are recognised as an
expense in the Profit and Loss Account at the undiscounted
amount expected to be paid over the period of services
rendered by the employees to the Company.
Post-employment
The Company offers its employees long term benefits by
way of defined-contribution and defined-benefit plans, of
328