Environment
For select large project finance transactions, we
appoint a Lenders' Independent Engineer (LIE) for
conducting an environmental and techno-commercial
evaluation of the project prior to loan disbursement.
Any loan disbursement is subject to the correction of
deficiencies related to environmental and social risks
identified by LIE. During the construction stage as well,
the LIE continues to monitor the project and flags any
risks associated with environmental/social issues in
the project to the Bank and borrower for necessary
corrective action.
Where required, we place pre-
disbursement stipulations/terms
of sanction to mitigate adverse
environmental and social impacts,
collect undertaking of compliance with
applicable regulations and criteria, and
monitor ongoing compliance on an
annual basis.
Our lending procedures are guided
by borrower and market demand, but
our credit exposure is well-diversified,
with no single industry having a
high concentration. As a result, our
credit exposure to ecologically/
socially sensitive industry sectors has
minimal negative consequences. We
also finance entities that deals with
environmental and social issues.
Less than 1% of the total exposure comes from fossil fuels (coal and lignite)
and their extraction/mining
Highlights of
the Bank's
credit exposure
No exposure of chemical or biological weapons manufacturing enterprises;
the Bank provides a substantial amount of funding to the healthcare industry
to meet the funding requirements of hospitals, diagnostic labs, and clinics
Solar and wind power, hydroelectricity, natural gas (extraction and
distribution), and biogas-based energy generation are a mong the Bank's
environment-friendly industry sectors for lending
Financing to regional rural banks, NBFC and microfinance that are key financial
intermediaries to agriculture workers, self-help groups, MSMEs, etc. through
direct lending (term loans, working capital loans, etc.) and/or through purchase
of receivables through the securitisation/direct assignment/IBPC route
Upgrading to a new 'ESG & Climate Change Assessment' framework
We have identified upgradation of
the SEMS framework as a priority
activity and have been working
on revising the SEMS framework
with a 'ESG & Climate Change
Assessment' framework to enable a
more comprehensive assessment of
ESG and Climate Change issues. We
have also been working on expanding
the coverage of the assessment
framework. Our newly formulated and
exhaustive 'ESG & Climate Change
Template' shall be applicable to all
Credit Assessment Memoranda
(CAMs) where the aggregate CAM
appetite crosses a certain threshold,
rather than at a transactional level, as
is the current practice. This template
shall be included in all CAMs where
direct customer exposure is above a
certain threshold.
66