Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
KPMG
data verified. Where such documentary evidences could not be collected due to sensitive nature of
the information, our team verified the same with the HDFC Bank during virtual interactions.
Conclusions
We have reviewed selected non-financial disclosures in the report of HDFC Bank for FY 2021-22.
Based on our review and procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not
to believe that the non-financial performance data and information as per the scope of assurance
presented in the Report is appropriately stated, in all material respects and in accordance with GRI
Standards.
Data representation and calculation related errors were detected but the same were resolved during
the assurance process. There is a scope for enhancing the understanding of the performance
disclosures among the data owners. We have provided our observations to the Bank in a separate
management letter. These, do not, however, affect our conclusions regarding the Report.
Independence
The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including professionals with suitable skills
and experience in auditing environmental, social and economic information in line with the
requirements of ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard.
Our work was performed in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for
Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the members of the
assurance team (practitioners) be independent of the assurance client, in relation to the scope of this
assurance engagement, including not being involved in writing the Report. The Code also includes
detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and
due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. KPMG has systems and processes in place to
monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. The firm applies
ISQC 1 and the practitioner complies with the applicable independence and other ethical requirements
of the IESBA code.
Responsibilities
HDFC Bank is responsible for developing the Report contents. HDFC Bank is also responsible for
identification of material sustainability topics, establishing and maintaining appropriate performance
management, internal control systems and derivation of performance data reported. This statement is
made solely to the Management of HDFC Bank in accordance with the terms of our engagement and
as per scope of assurance. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to HDFC Bank
those matters for which we have been engaged to state in this statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
HDFC Bank for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions expressed in this independent
assurance statement. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and
information provided to us is complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or co-responsibility
for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. Our report is
released to HDFC Bank on the basis that it shall not be copied, referred to or disclosed, in whole or in
part, without our prior written consent. By reading this assurance statement, stakeholders
acknowledge and agree to the limitations and disclaimers mentioned above.
Bal
Prathmesh Raichura
Partner
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP
20 June 2022
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
125