Directors' Report
Initiatives such as DR Resiliency and the Bank's Hybrid
Cloud Strategy continue to fortify its IT infrastructure and
architecture backbone.
Focus on its digital programs will pave the way for the Bank to
create next level neo-banking experiences for its customers.
From shaping new customer journeys to introducing best-in-
class products and services, transformation and innovation shall
be at the forefront.
Key initiatives in this space are:
· Vyapar: Digital onboarding of merchants for payment
acceptance and servicing of banking transactions for the
merchant community
· API based digital journeys for the auto industry:
Launched a digital API platform for auto financing
· PayZapp 2.0: Enhanced experience of app customers
to onboard, auto-link HDFC Bank cards, wallet and limit
management, transaction display via rich statement
· Wealth management system: A new wealth management
app with client self-profiling, goal setting, mutual fund order
execution and portfolio re-balancing
· SME customer experience transformation: New
technology to support business volume at larger scale,
revamp the entire SME customer experience across
commercial and retail business lines
· Biz Express: A new web portal for SME segments
covering digital on-boarding, managing their multiple
accounts, making payments with hierarchy, raising GST
compliant invoices for payment, multiple collection modes,
raise service requests online etc.
Your Bank has taken multiple steps to ensure that its robust,
scalable and secure technology set-up is strengthened even
further. The Bank continues to rigorously monitor the progress
against commitments to the regulator.
To this effect, significant strides were taken in the following
technology areas:
1. Implementation of a landing zone for Hyperscalers
Your Bank has invested in a hybrid-cloud approach with the
leading cloud service partners i.e, AWS, Azure and GCP. A
common landing zone has been implemented across these
partners to create a secure and streamlined environment for all
cloud deployments in the future. The landing zone also enables
the Bank's agenda of imbibing agility and DevSecOps in the
technology and digital transformation journey.
2. Capacity Upgrades
The capacity management program has made significant
inroads to ensure capacity planning and management are
commensurate with the rapid business growth witnessed by
the Bank. Strengthening of capacity management practices
has culminated into a threshold of 70 per cent across key
parameters such as user concurrency, utilisation of database,
server, storage, network and security devices. This has resulted
in planned capacity upgrades of critical applications such as:
. 90,000 concurrent users capacity for using NetBanking
and MobileBanking.
· The foundations of the banking platform being upgraded
along with modernisation of 300+ services. This enhances
the Bank's scalability and capacity to cater to triple the
load of UPI transactions. Successfully managing over
45 crore bank customer transactions per month which
had doubled in the last 12 months. Your Bank has already
been ranked among the top players as published in NPCI's
UPI performance metrics dashboard. Overall, the Bank's
average customer uptime was 99.94 per cent.
The senior management and the Board continue to keep strong
focus on capacity, performance, scalability and availability of the
Bank's critical applications.
3. DR and Resiliency
The Bank has notably intensified the rigour in its DR drills
for critical applications and will continue to further work on
strengthening its DR processes and capabilities as outlined and
communicated in its periodic submissions. The pivotal enablers
in this journey are:
· A rigorous focus on reducing RTO for key applications
to 40-60 minutes, which has been completed for 56
key applications
· Deep automation to improve configuration drift management
between primary and DR sites
· Enrichment of existing automation tools for DR to cover all
DR scenarios and reduce the RTO time further
· Refactoring key applications into an 'Hot DR' / 'Active-
Active' design
4. Migration of the Primary Data Centre
Your Bank embarked on a journey to fully migrate and consolidate
its primary data centre to state-of-the-art facilities in Mumbai
and Bengaluru partnering with Sify and NTT. A systematic plan
helped achieve 100 per cent migration of production applications
in November 2021 followed by 100 per cent migration of UAT
applications in March 2022. Further, a phase-wise plan is in
place to migrate the Bank's Chandivali, Mumbai data centre to
the NTT facility over the next 6 months.
144