Report on Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
The composition of the Board of Directors of the Bank ("Board")
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, SEBI Listing Regulations and
other applicable laws.
As on the date of this report, the Board consists of eleven (11)
Directors as follows:
Sr.
No.
Category
Name of Director
1 Executive
i. Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan (Managing Director &
Directors
Chief Executive Officer)
ii. Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
2 Non-Executive
Directors
Mrs. Renu Karnad (Nominee of Housing
Development Finance Corporation Limited,
Promoter of the Bank)
3 Independent
Directors
i. Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (Part-time Chairman &
Independent Director)
ii. Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
iii. Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
iv. Mr. Sandeep Parekh
v. Mr. Malay Patel
vi. Mr. M. D. Ranganath
vii. Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
viii.Mrs. Lily Vadera
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, was appointed as the Part-time Chairman
& Independent Director of the Bank with effect from May 5, 2021,
pursuant to the approval granted by the Reserve Bank of India,
and by the shareholders of the Bank at the 27th Annual General
Meeting held on July 17, 2021.
Mrs. Lily Vadera was appointed as an Independent Director of
the Bank for a period of five (5) years from November 26, 2021
to November 25, 2026 (both days inclusive), not liable to retire
by rotation and the same was approved by the shareholders of
the Bank through Postal Ballot on March 27, 2022.
Mr. Srikanth Nadhamuni tendered his resignation as Non-
Executive (Non-Independent) Director of Bank with effect from
February 18, 2022.
Further, at the meeting of the Board of Directors held on April
16, 2022, Mrs. Renu Karnad has been re-appointed as the Non-
Executive Director (Nominee of Housing Development Finance
Corporation Limited, Promoter of the Bank) on the Board of the
Bank, for a period of five (5) years with effect from September 3,
2022, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the ensuing
Annual General Meeting.
All the Directors have made necessary disclosures regarding
their directorship and committee positions occupied by them in
other companies. None of the directors are related to each other.
Details of directorships, memberships and chairpersonships of
the committees of other companies for the current Directors of
the Bank are as follows:
Name of Director
Directorships
on the Board
of other
companies*
Memberships of
committees of other
companies*
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty
2
-
Mr. Kaizad Bharucha
-
-
Mrs. Lily Vadera
-
-
Mr. Malay Patel
2
1
Mr. M. D. Ranganath
-
-
Mrs. Renu Karnad
11 (1)"
5 (3)
Mr. Sandeep Parekh
1
-
Mr. Sanjiv Sachar
1
-
Mr. Sashidhar Jagdishan
-
-
Dr. (Mrs.) Sunita Maheshwari
6
-
Mr. Umesh Chandra Sarangi
1
-
* The figures in brackets indicate chairpersonships.
** Mrs. Karnad tendered her resignation from Unitech Limited with effect
from March 24, 2022, and completion of necessary formalities is awaited,
including placing the same before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, for
its kind consideration.
Note: For the purpose of considering the limit of the directorships
and limits of committees on which the directors are members /
chairpersons, all public limited companies (whether listed or not),
private limited companies, foreign companies and companies
under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 have been
included. Further, chairpersonships / memberships of only the
Audit Committee and the Stakeholders' Relationship Committee
in these companies have been considered.
Profile of Board of Directors
The profile of the Directors of the Bank as on the date of this
report are as under:
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty (DIN 01469375)
[Part-time Chairman and Independent Director]
Mr. Atanu Chakraborty, aged sixty-two (62) years, served the
Government of India, for a period of thirty-five (35) years, as
a member of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in Gujarat
cadre. He has mainly worked in areas of Finance & Economic
Policy, Infrastructure, Petroleum & Natural Gas. In the Union
Government, he held various posts such as Secretary to
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance- Department of
Economic Affairs (DEA) during FY 2019-20. As Secretary (DEA),
he co-ordinated economic policy making for all ministries/
departments and managed entire process of formulation
of budget making for Union of India, including its passage in
Parliament. He was responsible for fiscal management policies,
policies for public debt management and development &
management of financial markets.
Mr. Chakraborty also handled financial stability and currency,
domestic & foreign related issues as well. He managed flow of
funds with multilateral and bilateral financial institutions and had
multiple interfaces with them. He also headed a multi-disciplinary
366