Schedules to the Consolidated Financial Statements
As at March 31, 2022
environment or specific information or basis regulatory
guidance / instructions, of a possible slippage of a specific
advance or a group of advances or exposures or potential
exposures. These are classified as contingent provisions
and included under other liabilities.
Provisions made in addition to the Bank's policy for specific
loan loss provisions for non-performing assets, possible
slippage of specific exposures and regulatory general
provisions are categorised as floating provisions. Creation
of floating provisions is considered by the Bank up to a level
approved by the Board of Directors. Floating provisions
are used only for contingencies under extraordinary
circumstances and for making specific provisions for non-
performing accounts. Floating provisions are included
under other liabilities.
Further to the provisions required to be held according
to the asset classification status, provisions are held for
individual country exposures (other than for home country
exposure). Countries are categorised into risk categories
as per Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd.
('ECGC') guidelines and provisioning is done in respect of
that country where the net funded exposure is one percent
or more of the Bank's total assets. Provision for country risk
is included under other liabilities.
In accordance with the RBI guidelines on the prudential
framework for resolution of stressed assets and the
resolution frameworks for COVID-19 related stress and
its Board approved policy, the Bank has implemented
resolution plans for eligible borrowers. The asset
classification and necessary provisions thereon are done
in accordance with the said RBI guidelines.
HDB Financial Services Limited
Classification:
Receivables under financing activity are classified as
standard, sub-standard and doubtful assets as per the
Company policy approved by the Board and as per RBI
guidelines. The rates applied for making provisions on non-
performing assets (NPA) are higher than those required by
the relevant RBI guidelines. Interest on non-performing
assets is transferred to an interest suspense account and
not recognised in the Profit and Loss Account until received.
Receivables under financing activity are recognised on
disbursement of loan and in case of new asset financing
on the transfer of ownership.
Provisioning:
The Company assesses all receivables for their recoverability
and accordingly recognises provision for non-performing
and doubtful assets as per approved Company policies
and guidelines. The Company ensures provisions made
are not lower than as stipulated by RBI guidelines.
The Company provides 0.40% on standard assets as
stipulated by RBI guidelines.
Loan origination costs:
Brokerage, commission, incentive to employee, etc. paid at
the time of acquisition of loans are charged to expenses.
3
Securitisation and transfer of assets
HDFC Bank Limited
Assets transferred through securitisation and direct
assignment of cash flows are de-recognised in the Balance
Sheet when they are sold (true sale criteria being fully met
with) and consideration is received. Sales / transfers that do
not meet true sale criteria are accounted for as borrowings.
For a securitisation or direct assignment transaction, the
Bank recognises profit upon receipt of the funds and loss
is recognised at the time of sale.
On sale of stressed assets, if the sale is at a price below
the net book value (i.e., funded outstanding less specific
provisions held), the shortfall is charged to the Profit and
Loss Account and if the sale is for a value higher than the
net book value, the excess provision is credited to the
Profit and Loss Account in the year when the sum of cash
received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption
or transfer of security receipts issued by SC / RC exceeds
the net book value of the loan at the time of transfer.
In respect of stressed assets sold under an asset
securitisation, where the investment by the bank in security
receipts (SRs) backed by the assets sold by it is more than
10 percent of such SRs, provisions held are higher of the
provisions required in terms of net asset value declared
by the Securitisation Company ('SC') / Reconstruction
Company ('RC') and provisions as per the extant norms
applicable to the underlying loans, notionally treating the
book value of these SRs as the corresponding stressed
loans assuming the loans remained in the books of
the Bank.
The Bank invests in Pass Through Certificates (PTCs)
issued by other Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). These
are accounted at acquisition cost and are classified as
investments. The Bank also buys loans through the direct
assignment route which are classified as advances. These
are carried at acquisition cost unless it is more than the
face value, in which case the premium is amortised based
on effective interest rate method.
The Bank transfers advances through inter-bank
participation with and without risk. In the case of participation
322