Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
· Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures,
and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
fair presentation.
· Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which
we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been
audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with Those Charged with Governance of the Bank and such other entities included in the consolidated financial
statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide Those Charged with Governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with Those Charged with Governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditor's report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matter
· We did not audit the financial statements of two subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets of ₹ 7,226,709
Lacs as at March 31, 2022, total revenues of ₹ 1,346,577 Lacs and net cash flows amounting to ₹ 45,344 Lacs for the year
ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements. These financial statements have been audited by
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial
statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in
terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the
reports of the other auditors.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is
not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors
and the financial statements certified by the Management.
· The audit of consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2021 was conducted by MSKA & Associates,
Chartered Accountants, the statutory auditor of the Bank, who had expressed an unmodified opinion on those financial
statements. Accordingly, we, M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, do not express any opinion on the figures reported
in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended / as at March 31, 2021.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statement is not modified in respect of the above matter.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and the consideration of the report of the other auditors on
separate financial statements as noted in the 'Other Matters' paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
a. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 303