Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
(FBIL) with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
Association (FIMMDA) as the calculating agent. Investments
denominated in foreign currencies are valued based on the
prices provided by market information providers such as
Bloomberg, Refinitiv, etc.
The market value of unquoted government of India securities,
state government securities and special bonds such as oil
bonds, fertilizer bonds, etc. issued by the government of
India is computed as per the prices published by FBIL with
FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities (viz.
other approved securities and bonds and debentures), and
preference shares, is done with appropriate mark-up, i.e.
applicable FIMMDA published credit spread over the Yield
to Maturity (YTM) rates for government of India securities as
published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the calculating agent.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up
value, if the latest Balance Sheet is available or at ₹ 1 for
each company.
Units of mutual funds are valued at the latest net asset value
declared by the respective schemes of the mutual fund.
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits
being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
Investments in Security receipts (SR) and unquoted units
of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) are valued as
per the net asset value provided by the issuing Asset
Reconstruction Company and InvIT trust respectively.
Investments in unquoted Venture Capital Fund (VCF) are
categorised, at the discretion of the Bank, under HTM
category for an initial period of three years and valued at
cost during this period. Such investments are transferred
to the AFS category after the said period of three years.
Investments in AFS category are valued at NAV shown by
the VCF in its financial statements. Units are valued based
on the latest audited financials of the VCF, if available or at
₹ 1 per VCF as per the RBI guidelines.
Pass Through Certificates (PTC) including Priority Sector-
PTCs are valued by using FIMMDA credit spread as
applicable for the NBFC category, based on the credit rating
of the respective PTC over the YTM rates for government
of India securities published by FBIL with FIMMDA as the
calculating agent.
Net depreciation, if any, compared to the acquisition cost,
in any of the six groups, is charged to the Profit and Loss
Account. The net appreciation, if any, in any of the six groups
is not recognised except to the extent of depreciation
provided earlier. The book value of individual securities is
not changed on such revaluation of investments.
Investments classified under HTM category are carried
at their acquisition cost and not marked to market. Any
premium on acquisition is amortised over the remaining
maturity period of the security on a constant yield-to-
maturity basis. Such amortisation of premium is adjusted
against interest income from investments. Any diminution,
other than temporary, in the value of investments in HTM
category is provided for.
Non-performing investments are identified and provision
are made thereon based on the RBI guidelines. The
provision on such non-performing investments are not set
off against the appreciation in respect of other performing
investments. Interest on non-performing investments is not
recognised until received.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions:
Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase (Reverse
Repo) transactions are reflected as borrowing and lending
transactions respectively.
Borrowing cost on repo transactions is accounted as
interest expense and revenue on reverse repo transactions
is accounted as interest income.
2
Advances
Classification:
Advances are classified as performing and non-performing
based on the RBI guidelines and are stated net of bills
rediscounted, inter-bank participation with risk, specific
provisions, interest in suspense for non-performing
advances, claims received from Credit Guarantors,
provisions for funded interest term loan and provision for
diminution in the fair value of restructured assets.
Provisioning:
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
advances are made based on management's assessment
of the degree of impairment of advances, subject to the
minimum provisioning prescribed by the RBI.
The specific provision for retail non-performing assets are
also based on the nature of product and delinquency levels.
Specific loan loss provisions in respect of non-performing
advances are included under Provisions and Contingencies.
Non-performing advances are written-off in accordance
with the Bank's policy. Recoveries from bad debts written-
off are included under other income.
In relation to derivative contracts with non-performing
borrowers, the Bank makes provision for the entire amount
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 23