Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
HDFC Securities Limited
· Income from services rendered as a broker is
recognised upon rendering of the services.
· Fees for subscription based services are received
periodically but are recognised as earned on a pro-
rata basis over the term of the contract.
· Commissions from distribution of financial products
are recognised upon allotment of the securities to the
applicant or as the case may be, issue of the insurance
policy to the applicant.
· Commissions and fees recognised as aforesaid
are exclusive of goods and service tax, securities
transaction tax, stamp duties and other levies by SEBI
and stock exchanges.
· Interest is earned on delayed payments from clients
and amounts funded to them as well as term deposits
with banks.
· Interest income is recognised on a time proportion
basis taking into account the amount outstanding
from customers or on the financial instrument and the
rate applicable.
· Dividend income is recognised when the right to
receive the dividend is established.
HDB Financial Services Limited
· Interest income is recognised in the Profit and
Loss Account on an accrual basis. In case of Non-
Performing Assets (NPA), interest income is recognised
upon realisation as per the RBI Guidelines. Interest
accrued and not realised before the classification of
the asset as an NPA is reversed and credited to the
interest suspense account.
· Income from BPO services and other financial charges
are recognised on an accrual basis, except in case
of cheque bouncing charges, late payment charges,
foreclosure charges and application money, which are
accounted as and when received.
· Upfront / processing fees are recovered and
recognised at the time of disbursement of loan.
9
Employee benefits
HDFC Bank Limited
Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS):
The Employee Stock Option Scheme ('the Scheme')
provides for the grant of options to acquire equity shares
of the Bank to its employees and whole time directors.
The options granted to employees vest as per their vesting
schedule and these may be exercised by the employees
within a specified period.
The Bank follows the intrinsic value method to account for
its stock-based employee compensation plans in respect of
options granted up to March 31, 2021. Compensation cost
is measured by the excess, if any, of the market price of
the underlying stock over the exercise price as determined
under the option plan. The market price is the closing
price on the stock exchange where there is highest trading
volume on the working day immediately preceding the date
of grant. Compensation cost, if any is amortised over the
vesting period.
Effective April 01, 2021, the fair value of share-linked
instruments on the date of grant for all instruments granted
after March 31, 2021 is recognised as an expense in
accordance with the RBI guidelines on Compensation of
Whole Time Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material
Risk Takers and Control Function staff. The fair value of the
stock-based employee compensation is estimated using
Black-Scholes model. The compensation cost is amortised
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the option
with a corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options
Reserve. On exercise of the stock options, corresponding
balance in Employee Stock Options Reserve is transferred
to Share Premium. In respect of the options which expire
unexercised, the balance standing to the credit of Employee
Stock Options Reserve is transferred to General Reserve.
Gratuity:
The Bank has an obligation towards gratuity, a defined
benefit retirement plan covering all eligible employees.
The plan benefit vests upon completion of five years of
service and is in the form of lump sum amount, without an
upper limit, equivalent to 15 days' basic salary payable for
each completed year of service to all eligible employees on
resignation, retirement, death while in employment or on
termination of employment. The Bank makes contributions
to a recognised Gratuity Trust administered by trustees and
whose funds are managed by insurance companies. In
respect of erstwhile Lord Krishna Bank (eLKB) employees,
the Bank makes contribution to a fund set up by eLKB and
administered by the Board of Trustees.
The defined gratuity benefit plans are valued by an
independent actuary as at the Balance Sheet date using
the projected unit credit method as per the requirement of
AS-15, Employee Benefits, to determine the present value
of the defined benefit obligation and the related service
costs. The actuarial calculations entails assumptions about
demographics, early retirement, salary increases and
interest rates. Actuarial gain or loss is recognised in the
Profit and Loss Account.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 327