Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of
> Employees (Y/N) - Yes
> Workers (Y/N) - Not applicable
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited
by the value chain partners.
> The Bank works towards greater integration of environmental & social considerations in its procurement practices. The
Bank also sets clear expectations with vendors and suppliers to abide by labour laws, human rights and regulations in
their regions of business.
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health
/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
> Not applicable
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
> Yes. Please refer 'Social-People' section of the Integrated Report of FY 22.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Not applicable
Working Conditions
Not applicable
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
> Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
> Please refer to our response in the next question.
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder group
Whether identified
as Vulnerable &
Marginalized Group
(Yes/No)
Channels of Communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper,
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community, Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of
engagement of
(Annually/ Half yearly/
Quarterly others -
please specify
Purpose and scope of
engagement including
key topics and
concerns raised during
such engagement
410