Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Responsible
Business
Our
Strategy
How We
Create Value
Our
Performance
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Overview
18. Provisions and contingent liabilities
Given below is the movement in provisions and a brief description of the nature of contingent liabilities recognised by the Bank.
a) Provision for credit card and debit card reward points
(₹ crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening provision for reward points
638.79
734.15
Provision for reward points made during the year
465.13
375.21
Utilisation / write-back of provision for reward points
(468.01)
(470.57)
Closing provision for reward points
635.91
638.79
b)
Provision for legal and other contingencies
(₹ crore)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
March 31, 2021
Opening provision
503.55
445.35
Movement during the year (net)
32.54
58.20
Closing provision
536.09
503.55
c) Description of contingent liabilities
Sr. Contingent liability*
No.
Brief description
1
Claims against the Bank
not acknowledged as
debts - taxation
The Bank is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which appeals are pending. The Bank
expects the outcome of the appeals to be favorable based on decisions on similar issues in the
previous years by the appellate authorities, based on the facts of the case and taxation laws.
2
Claims against the Bank
not acknowledged as
debts - others
The Bank is a party to various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. The Bank does not
expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial
conditions, results of operations or cash flows.
3
Partly paid investments
This represents amount remaining unpaid towards liability for partly paid investments.
4
Liability on account of
forward exchange and
derivative contracts
The Bank enters into foreign exchange contracts, currency options, forward rate agreements, currency
swaps and interest rate swaps with inter-bank participants on its own account and for customers.
Forward exchange contracts are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at
the contracted rate. Currency swaps are commitments to exchange cash flows by way of interest
/ principal in one currency against another, based on predetermined rates. Interest rate swaps are
commitments to exchange fixed and floating interest rate cash flows. The notional amounts of financial
instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and derivatives provide a basis for comparison with
instruments recognised on the Balance Sheet but do not necessarily indicate the amounts of future
cash flows involved or the current fair value of the instruments and, therefore, do not indicate the
Bank's exposure to credit or price risks. The derivative instruments become favorable (assets) or
unfavorable (liabilities) as a result of fluctuations in market rates or prices relative to their terms.
5
Guarantees given on
behalf of constituents,
acceptances,
endorsements and other
obligations
As a part of its commercial banking activities, the Bank issues documentary credit and guarantees
on behalf of its customers. Documentary credits such as letters of credit enhance the credit standing
of the Bank's customers. Guarantees generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will
make payments in the event of the customer failing to fulfill its financial or performance obligations.
6
Other items for which the
Bank is contingently liable
These include: a) Credit enhancements in respect of securitised-out loans; b) Bills rediscounted by
the Bank; c) Capital commitments; d) Underwriting commitments; e) Investment purchases pending
settlement; f) Amount transferred to the RBI under the Depositor Education and Awareness Fund
(DEAF).
*Also refer Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
267