Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
Schedule 17 - Significant accounting policies
appended to and forming part of the consolidated
financial statements for the year ended March 31,
2022
A BACKGROUND
HDFC Bank Limited ('HDFC Bank' or 'the Bank'),
incorporated in Mumbai, India is a publicly held banking
company engaged in providing a range of banking and
financial services including retail banking, wholesale
banking and treasury operations. The Bank is governed
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies
Act, 2013. The Bank has overseas branch operations in
Bahrain, Hong Kong, Dubai and Offshore Banking Unit at
International Financial Service Centre (IFSC), GIFT City,
India. The financial accounting systems of the Bank are
centralised and, therefore, accounting returns are not
required to be submitted by branches of the Bank.
HDB Financial Services Limited (HDBFSL) and HDFC
Securities Limited (HSL) are subsidiaries of the Bank.
HDBFSL is a non-deposit taking non-banking finance
company. HSL is a financial services provider along with
broking as a core product.
B
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements comprise the
financial statements of the Bank and its subsidiaries
constituting the 'Group'. The Bank consolidates its
subsidiaries in accordance with Accounting Standard ('AS')
21, Consolidated Financial Statements, specified under
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, on a line-by-line
basis by adding together the like items of assets, liabilities,
income and expenditure. Capital reserve / Goodwill
on consolidation represent the difference between the
Bank's share in the net worth of the subsidiary and the
cost of acquisition at the time of making the investment in
the subsidiary.
C BASIS OF PREPARATION
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared
and presented under the historical cost convention and
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and
are in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles in India ('GAAP'), statutory requirements
prescribed under the Third Schedule of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, circulars and guidelines issued by
the Reserve Bank of India ('RBI') from time to time (RBI
guidelines), Accounting Standards ('AS') specified under
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with
the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, in so far as they apply
to banks.
Use of estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
conformity with GAAP requires the management to make
estimates and necessary assumptions in the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities (including contingent
liabilities) as of the date of the financial statements and
the reported income and expenses for the reporting
year. Management believes that the estimates used in
the preparation of the financial statements are prudent
and reasonable. Actual results could differ from these
estimates. Any revision in the accounting estimates is
recognised prospectively in the current and future periods.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements present the accounts
of HDFC Bank Limited with its following subsidiaries:
Name
Relation
Country of
incorporation
Ownership
interest **
HDFC Securities
Limited
Subsidiary
India
95.96%
HDB Financial
Services Limited
Subsidiary
India
94.96%
HDB Employee
Welfare Trust
*
India
The financial statements of HDBFSL and HSL have been
prepared in accordance with notified Indian Accounting
Standards ('Ind-AS') with effect from April 1, 2018. The
financial statements used for consolidation are special
purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India ('GAAP')
specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013
read together with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
and the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021.
* The accounts of HDB Employee Welfare Trust, a trust
established for providing general welfare measures
such as medical relief and educational assistance to
the employees of the Bank and their dependents has
been entirely consolidated.
* Denotes HDFC Bank's direct interest.
During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank's
shareholding in HDB Financial Services Limited
decreased from 95.1% to 94.9% on account of the
stock options exercised by minority stakeholders.
During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank's
shareholding in HDFC Securities Limited decreased
from 96.3% to 95.9% on account of the stock options
exercised by minority stakeholders.
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22
319