Overview
Introduction to
HDFC Bank
Our
Performance
How We
Create Value
Our
Strategy
Responsible
Business
Statutory Reports and
Financial Statements
current setup in metros. In the year under review, the business
has expanded to 67 new locations and is now catering to 216
cities with 46 per cent increase in total families managed and total
Assets under management of Rs. 4.11 lakh crores. Your bank
is on track to reach 800+ locations by the end of this financial
year through a hub and spoke model. Your bank is currently
ranked 2nd amongst distributors in terms of distributor managed
Mutual Fund Assets under management with market share of 4
per cent. The business has been ranked No. 1 in Mass Affluent
(US$100K to US$5m) Category by Euromoney Private Banking
& Wealth Management Survey 2022 in addition to receiving
prestigious awards like Best Private Bank in India by Global
Private Banking Awards 2021 and Best Bank for Succession
Planning by Asiamoney Asia Private Banking Awards 2021.
Our dedicated service team for Wealth Clients ensures that
we deliver on our Service First philosophy. Further, to ensure
transition from transactional approach of wealth management to
client centric portfolio management approach, your bank tracks
the Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) of its Wealth business
as a key metric of client retention. Your bank has an open
architecture framework across investment products to ensure
that the recommended investment options are based on robust
quantitative and qualitative evaluation model re-accentuating
our customer centricity. Your bank is developing a mobile first
Wealth application that will leverage on advanced analytics and
intuitive client experience/ journeys to provide differentiated
wealth solutions across customer segments. The digital platform
will focus on agile digital journeys and personalisation to cater
to customers across the country. The goal is to deliver a highly
personalised experience that democratises wealth management
and makes it accessible for all our customers.
Wholesale Banking
The Wholesale Banking business was a key growth engine for
your Bank in the year under review. This business focuses on
institutional customers such as the Government, PSUs, large and
emerging corporates, and SMEs. Your Bank's strong offerings
include working capital and term loans, as well as trade credit,
cash management, supply chain financing, foreign exchange,
and investment banking services.
The Wholesale Banking business recorded healthy growth,
ending FY 2021-22 with a domestic loan book size of ₹ 737,896
crore, recording a growth of 26.4 per cent over the year earlier.
This constituted about 55 per cent of your Bank's domestic
loans as per Basel II classification. Your Bank was able to
expand its share of the customer wallet, primarily using sharper
customisation, cross-selling and expanding into greater
geographies. And continuing to lend during the pandemic while
being prudent.
Corporate Banking, which focuses on large, well-rated
companies, continued to be the biggest contributor to Wholesale
Banking in terms of asset size. It was able to do so as it was
armed with sufficient cash due to its strong capital base and
balance sheet.
In Corporate banking, your Bank refocused on its engagement
with MNCs. This business also continued to capitalise on the
trend of large companies preferring to deal with fewer banks.
Your Bank deepened its existing relationships as well as
gained market share by leveraging its wide product offering.
This business supported customer requirements under
the Production Linked Incentive Scheme. The Emerging
Corporates Group, which focuses on the mid- market segment,
too witnessed significant growth. Your Bank leveraged its
vast geographical reach, technology backbone, automated
processes, suite of financial products and quick turnaround
times to offer a differentiated service, which has resulted in new
customer acquisitions as well as a higher share of the wallet from
existing customers. The business continues to have a diversified
portfolio in terms of both industry and geography.
In the year under review, the Bank continued its focus on the
MSME sector. There has already been increased formalistion/
digitalisation of the MSME sector due to the adoption of the
Goods and Service Tax (GST). The COVID-19 pandemic led to
the sector experiencing substantial stress, prompting the Union
Government to identify it for special support through various
schemes like Moratorium, ECLGS, ECLGS Extension and COVID
support loans. Your Bank supported its customers during this
period by participating in the Government schemes.
The Investment Banking business further cemented its
prominent position in the Debt Capital Markets, Equity Capital
Markets and INR Loan Syndication. Your Bank maintained its
position amongst the top 3 in the Bloomberg rankings of Rupee
Bond Book Runners for FY 2021-22, with a market share of
14.42 per cent. Your Bank is actively assisting clients in equity
fund raising and was ranked 5th in the PRIME Database League
Tables for IPOs and Rights Issues for FY 2021-22 for private
sector issues against 9th for FY 2020-21. Your Bank is ranked
2nd in the Bloomberg rankings of Syndicated INR term loans
for FY 2021-22, with a market share of 11.32 per cent against
ranking of 3rd for FY 2020-21.
In the Government business, your Bank sustained its focus on tax
collections, collecting direct tax (CBDT) of Rs 4,08,869.61 crore
and Indirect tax (CBIC+ GST) of over Rs 2,24,712.76 crore during
FY 2021-22. It continues to enjoy a pre-eminent position among
the country's major stock and commodity exchanges in both
Cash Management Services and Cash Settlement Services.
Your Bank has been a pioneer in providing Digital Banking
Services to its wholesale banking customers. It was an early
HDFC Bank Limited Integrated Annual Report 2021-22 139